A character mask (German: Charaktermaske) in the Marxian sense is a character disguised with a different character. The term was used by Karl Marx in various published writings from the 1840s to the 1860s, and also by Friedrich Engels. It is related to the classical Greek concepts of mimesis (imitative representation using analogies) and prosopopoeia (impersonation or personification) as well as the Roman concept of persona,[1] but also differs from them (see below).[2] The notion of character masks has been used by neo-Marxist and non-Marxist sociologists,[3] philosophers[4] and anthropologists[5] to interpret how people relate in societies with a complex division of labour, where people depend on trade to meet many of their needs.

As a critical concept, bearing character masks contrasts with the concept of "role-taking" developed by social theorists such as George Herbert Mead, Ralph Linton, Talcott Parsons, Theodore R. Sarbin and Ralf Dahrendorf, as well as Robert K. Merton's idea of a role set, in the first instance because "social roles" do not necessarily assume the masking of behaviour, and Marx's character masks do not necessarily assume agreement with roles, or that the roles are fixed (see role theory).[6]

The concept of a character mask, and more generally the concept of masks, can be regarded as one of the simplest and oldest in human social theory.[7] Yet it is also connected to the most difficult issues about the interaction between the self and the social world.[8] Indian experts say that "Masks are one of the earliest creations of humans to establish a relationship between the outer world and the inner person".[9] The Jungian psychologist Jolande Jacobi commented that "With the advance of civilization, the mask, originally connected with the gods and animated by them, has become through constant use an everyday necessity."[10] The Nepalese scholar Shanker Thapa claims that the concept of masks is "not much highlighted in the scholarly world" and that "its relation to human creativity and nature are ignored" – a "precise scientific and cultural analysis and elaboration is still lacking."[11]

Marx's own idea of character masks was not a cut-and-dried academic concept with a fixed definition. Instead, it was a living idea which evolved across half a century. Different Marxist thinkers subsequently developed the idea further in various new contexts.
Contents
 [hide] 

    * 1 Acting out
    * 2 Character masks versus social masks
    * 3 "False awareness"
    * 4 The literatures of masks
    * 5 Levels of masking
          o 5.1 General
          o 5.2 Historical
          o 5.3 Economic
    * 6 Significance of character masks
          o 6.1 Ancient masks
          o 6.2 Masks and the spirit world
          o 6.3 Risk and magic
          o 6.4 Specificity of a character mask
          o 6.5 Masks as the personifications of functions
          o 6.6 Masks as mediators of social contradictions
          o 6.7 "Naked self-interest"
    * 7 Sources of the concept
          o 7.1 Marx's studies of Greek philosophy
          o 7.2 Theatre and drama
          o 7.3 The critique of religion
          o 7.4 Polemics
          o 7.5 The 18th Brumaire
          o 7.6 Alfred Meissner
    * 8 Deletion and revival of the concept
          o 8.1 The deletion of the concept
          o 8.2 The revival of the concept
    * 9 Marx;'s argument in Das Kapital
          o 9.1 Roles
          o 9.2 Interests
          o 9.3 Masking
          o 9.4 Inversion
          o 9.5 Alienation
          o 9.6 Development
          o 9.7 Revolution
    * 10 Engels on character masks
          o 10.1 Achille Loria
          o 10.2 Political disguises and ideal types
    * 11 Marxist theories about character masks
          o 11.1 Early Marxism
          o 11.2 Lukács
          o 11.3 Post-war Western Marxism
          o 11.4 Theodor Adorno
          o 11.5 Frankfurt School analysis
                + 11.5.1 The fight against alienation
                + 11.5.2 Contradictory masks
                + 11.5.3 The struggle for identity
    * 12 Criticism and recent controversies
          o 12.1 Masking as a crime
          o 12.2 Dialectical difficulties
          o 12.3 Soviet Union
          o 12.4 The New Left and the Red Army Faction
          o 12.5 Ten points of controversy
          o 12.6 Humanism and anti-humanism
                + 12.6.1 Carl Jung's psychoanalysis
                + 12.6.2 Louis Althusser's neo-Stalinism
                + 12.6.3 Marxism as a character mask?
          o 12.7 The sociological imagination
          o 12.8 Sociobiology
          o 12.9 Game theory
          o 12.10 Postmodernism
                + 12.10.1 New kinds of masks
                + 12.10.2 Kurz and Lohoff
                + 12.10.3 Baudrillard
                + 12.10.4 Žižek
                + 12.10.5 Occupy Wall Street
          o 12.11 Optimism and pessimism
    * 13 Unmasking
          o 13.1 Science
          o 13.2 Collapse
    * 14 See also
    * 15 Notes

Acting out

The concept of character masks refers to the circumstance that, in human societies, people can take on functions in which they "act out" roles, whether voluntarily chosen, by necessity, or forced. In those roles, some or all of their true characteristics and intentions may be partly or wholly masked, so that they appear different from what they truly are.

Also, their activity may have broader social effects that they would rather not know about, which they wish to be unknown or presented in a certain light, or which they are unaware of, and therefore the effects are mentally disconnected from their real causes. Accordingly persons and their relationships may no longer be quite what they seem to be, and there is a difference between their personal and their functional (or formal) relationships. Even if the "masking" is readily observable and known, so that a difference between the person and a functional role is self-evident, what the true character is, may remain unknown. The ultimate in acting is achieved when the actors and actresses are able to impersonate characters so well and so completely, that their audience cannot distinguish the act from the real thing (and the actors and actresses themselves start to believe they really are someone else).
Character masks versus social masks

As a psychological term, "character" is traditionally used more in continental Europe, while in Britain and North America the term "personality" is used in approximately the same contexts.[12] Marx however uses the term "character mask" analogously to a theatrical role, where the actor (or the characteristics of a prop) represents a certain interest or function, and intends by character both "the characteristics of somebody" and "the characteristics of something". He was writing a century before role theory became an academically recognized subject in sociology.[13] Marx's metaphorical use of the term "character masks" refers back to carnival masks and the masks used in classical Greek theatre, which symbolized specific characters. At issue is the social form in which a practice is acted out.

A sophisticated academic language for talking about the sociology of roles did not exist in the mid-19th century. Marx therefore borrowed from theatre and literature to express his idea.[14] Although György Lukács pioneered a sociology of drama in 1909,[15] a sociology of roles began only in the 1930s, and a specific sociology of theatre (e.g. by Jean Duvignaud) first emerged in the 1960s.[16] Marx's concept is both that an identity appears differently from its true identity (it is masked or disguised), and that this difference has very real practical consequences (the mask is not simply a decoration, but performs a real function and has real effects, even independently of the mask bearer).

The nearest equivalent term in modern English for Marx's "character masks" is social masks. However, such a translation is not entirely satisfactory, for several reasons:

    * A "social mask" is normally understood only as the mask of an individual, while Marx's concept of character masks has been applied by Marxists and non-Marxists to persons and politicians,[17] groups and social classes, mass media, social movements and political parties, social institutions, organizations and functions, governments, symbolic expressions, historical eras, and dramatic, literary or theatrical contexts. In each case, the suggestion is that matters present themselves other than they really are.[18]
    * Marx's character masks are a specific kind of social masks, i.e. masks of people and things which represent a social, political, intellectual or economic function, within the given social relationships among groups of people. The category of "social masks" is much more general and inclusive.
    * With Marx's character masks, it is understood that they are bound up with a specific type of society at a specific historical time, and with a specific theory of how the social relations in that society function. By contrast, the general concept of "social masks" assumes no specific theory, specific society or specific historical time; social masks of whatever form can be assumed to have existed forever and a day, and thus are treated as a more or less permanent part of the human condition.

Nevertheless, the Argentinian/Spanish sociologist Pablo Nacach has used the concept of "social masks" in a wider, critical sense.[19]
"False awareness"

There is a link between character masks and the concept of deliberate misrepresentation and hypocrisy.[20] Yet character masks need not be hypocritical, insofar as the motive for their use is genuine, sincere, principled or naive – or a product of (self-)delusion. People can also mask their behaviour, or mask a situation, without being aware that they are doing so, i.e. they may mask something to themselves, not just consciously but unconsciously.[21] Paul Ricœur explains:

    "What distinguishes false-consciousness from error or falsehood, and what motivates a particular kind of critique, of denunciation, is the possibility of signifying another thing than one believes was signified, that is, the possibility of the masked consciousness. These two words, "false consciousness," pertain usually to Marx. (...) Consciousness, far from being transparent in itself, is at the same time what reveals and what conceals; it is this relation of conceal/reveal which calls for a specific reading, a hermeneutics. The task of hermeneutics... has always been to read a text and to distinguish the true sense from the apparent sense, to search for the sense under the sense... There is then, a proper manner of uncovering what was covered, of unveiling what was veiled, of removing the mask." [22]

The "false awareness" (falsches Bewusstsein) in the classical sense used by Friedrich Engels does not necessarily refer to "errors" in the content of awareness. It refers rather to an absence of awareness of what is really behind the ideas being worked with, how they have originated, or what the real role or effect of the ideas is. The first result of that is, that the ideologists believe themselves to be performing certain intellectual operations with regard to an issue, which, in reality, have quite a different significance than what they imagine. The second result is that their intellectual creations can then function as a mask for what is really at stake, precisely because the issue is portrayed in a one-sided or distorted way – without the ideologists being aware of how that works. Thus, the ideologists are aware and unaware at the same time. The problem, says Engels, is that they deal only with "thought-material", disconnected from the practical activity and circumstances giving rise to it, and therefore they exaggerate the power of ideas, even to the point where ideas seem to be the cause of all that happens. This occurs especially if the intellectual productions occur at quite some distance from the practical context to which they properly refer, or if they concern specialized, highly abstract ideas which cannot easily be verified[23] (this concept differs from the Marxism–Leninism ideology, where "false consciousness" is thinking which deviates from the political line of the Communist Party).

Masking need not involve deliberate lying or fraud. It may merely involve the projection of an image, shape or sound which the observer chooses to, or is likely to, interpret in a particular way (it could also be interpreted in many other, quite different ways). In fact, Marx suggests that insofar as people work in various roles and functions, a character mask can be a "normal" part of the role. In his 1891 essay The Critic as Artist, Oscar Wilde remarks that paradoxically "Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth." [24]
The literatures of masks

There are numerous novels,[25] thrillers, horror stories[26] and biographies which explore the human character that exists "behind the mask" from various points of view; often the human character interpreted by the authors is a politician, hero or heroine, a law enforcement officer or criminal who is found, for one motive or another, to exhibit a truly spectacular discrepancy between his masks, and who or what he (or she) really is – raising important questions about the sheer complexity of possible human behaviours and motives (if not excitement or moral outrage). There are also numerous books by religious authors[27] and psychologists[28] dealing with the way in which people seek to "cover up" the impact of a mistake, a sin, an injury or a trauma by carrying on a pretense which involves the masking of behaviour.

However, while this kind of literature does illustrate that character masks of all kinds are a durable feature of the human condition – arising out of the great behavioural flexibility of the human species, acquired through a lengthy process of evolution – they do not necessarily have anything to do with Marx's critique of bourgeois society as a whole, and the character masks which Marx thought were specific to (or "characteristic" of) that society. The human practice of masking, whether for ritualistic, cultural or practical reasons, predates the origin of class societies by thousands of years, and therefore many kinds of masking cannot be attributed simply to class conflicts, commercial interests or legal imperatives; they reflect long-lasting cultural practices (see below).[29]
Levels of masking
General

The substance of Marx's idea is, that people, their relationships and their worlds take on character masks, when people:

    * cannot stay consistent or survive without them.
    * are not (yet) equal to the situation, or in a transitional phase.
    * have a special interest, incentive or stake in presenting themselves in a different way, at variance with the real situation.
    * pretend and act "as though" a characteristic applies, although they do not really know yet what the real motivation for it is, or because they hope to bring the characteristic into being.
    * perform a function which requires them to act out a role, often irrespective of what their personal inclinations might be.
    * in practical life are so used to regarding something in a reified way, that it becomes "normal", self-evident and a habit.
    * aim to dramatize, sanctify, justify or dignify something, even if it was only ignorance or innocence.

To bridge a difficult moment or phase, people have to "act". They take on disguises, they hide their true character in some way, and they present themselves differently from what they really are. People can also become aware of a phenomenon before they know what it really is or means, what the implications are, or how to deal with it. They cannot "place" it. This could make them feel embarrassed, helpless or insecure, and they might initially just call it names which mask what is really going on. The masks they adopt as a behavioural response to an unfamiliar experience may provide confidence or forbearance where the situation itself gives no reason for confidence. Effectively, the significance is thereby either disregarded, downplayed, or assimilated to something else that is already familiar – or which is analogous to it (see also cognitive dissonance).

Whether or not this involves deliberate deceit or a ruse, depends on the true motivation. People have to depend on others with trust, but that creates plenty scope for deception, insofar as people assume things that they really should not in the situation (human gullibility). Indeed, the metaphor of individuals and groups – particularly intellectuals and political actors – who bear "masks", who "abandon their masks", engage in a "masquerade" or who are "unmasked", appears many times in Marx's manuscripts and correspondence.[30]
Historical

The "character masks of an era" refer, according to Marx and Engels, to its main symbolic expressions of self-justification or apologism, the function of which is to disguise, embellish or mystify ideologically the social contradictions in the real character of the era ("the bits that do not fit"), so that life can carry on anyway. A purported "mystical truth" in this context is a meaning (a "naming", a descriptive association or metaphor) which cannot be definitely proved, because it results from an abstractive procedure or cognition which is not logical, and cannot be tested scientifically, only subjectively experienced.

Terry Eagleton explains:

    "A dominant power may legitimate itself by promoting beliefs and values congenial to it; naturalizing and universalizing such beliefs so as to render them self-evident and apparently inevitable; denigrating ideas which might challenge it; excluding rival forms of thought, perhaps by some unspoken but systematic logic; and obscuring social reality in ways convenient to itself. Such `mystification', as it is commonly known, frequently takes the form of masking or suppressing social conflicts, from which arises the conception of ideology as an imaginary resolution of real contradictions." [31]

For example, a concept such as "globalization" can mean almost anything you like, it has no fixed meaning (it is a buzzword or fuzzy concept). This makes it a very convenient expression to justify any kind of international orientation or policy, or present the worldwide expansion of capitalism as inevitable. The European Commission actually commissioned surveys asking people whether they agreed or disagreed that globalization was a good thing, or how much they preferred it.[32] A similar poll was conducted by the BBC World Service in 2008, which suggested "unease" about globalization.[33] This approach creates the impression that "globalization" has a definite technical meaning and a reality, which professional experts can specify, but, in fact, even the experts cannot agree about its meaning.[34]
Economic

Marx also argues that, insofar as capitalist class society is intrinsically a very contradictory system – it contains many conflicting and competing forces – the masking of its true characteristics becomes an integral feature of how it actually operates. Buyers and sellers compete with other buyers and sellers. Businesses compete about costs, sales, profits and much more, and they cannot practically do so without confidentiality and secrecy. Workers compete for job opportunities and access to resources. Capitalists and workers compete for their share of the new wealth that is produced, and nations compete with other nations. The masks are therefore not optional, but necessary. And the more one is able to know about others, the more subtle, ingenious and sophisticated the masks become.

One of the centrepieces of Marx's critique of political economy is that the juridical labour contract between the worker and his capitalist employer obscures the true economic relationship, which is (according to Marx) that the workers do not sell their labour, but their labour power, i.e. their capacity to work, making possible a profitable difference between what they are paid and the new value they create for the owners of capital (a form of economic exploitation). Thus, the very foundation of capitalist wealth creation involves – as Marx says explicitly – a "mask".[35] More generally, Marx argues that transactions in the capitalist economy are often far from transparent – they appear different from what they really are. This is discovered, only when one probes the total context in which they occur. Hence Marx writes:

    "Vulgar economics actually does nothing more than to interpret, to systematize and turn into apologetics – in a doctrinaire way – the ideas of the agents who are trapped within bourgeois relations of production. So it should not surprise us that, precisely within the estranged form of appearance of economic relations in which these prima facie absurd and complete contradictions occur – and all science would be superfluous if the form of appearance of things directly coincided with their essence – that precisely here vulgar economics feels completely at home, and that these relationships appear all the more self-evident to it, the more their inner interconnection remains hidden to it, even though these relationships are comprehensible to the popular mind"[36]

This implies another level of masking, because the economic character masks are then straightforwardly ("vulgarly") equated with authentic behaviour ("there is no more to it, than meets the eye"). The effect in this case is, that the theory of "how the economy works" masks how it actually works, by conflating its surface appearance with its real nature. Its generalities seem to explain it, but in reality, when one gets down to specifics, they do not. The theory works, "except when it does not", and it is therefore (ultimately) arbitrary. Either things are studied in isolation from the total context in which they occur, or, generalizations are formed which leave essential bits out. Such distortion can certainly be ideologically useful to justify an economic system, position or policy as a good thing, but it can become a hindrance to understanding.[37]
Significance of character masks

The use of masks in rituals or ceremonies is a very ancient human practice across the world,[38] although masks can also be worn for protection, in hunting, in sports, in feasts or in wars – or simply used as ornamentation.[39] Some ceremonial or decorative masks were not designed to be worn. Although the religious use of masks has waned, masks are used sometimes in drama therapy or psychotherapy.[40]
Ancient masks

The oldest masks that have been discovered are 9,000 years old, being held by the Musée "Bible et Terre Sainte" (Paris), and the Israel Museum (Jerusalem).[41] Most probably the practice of masking is much older – the earliest known anthropomorphic artwork is circa 30,000–40,000 years old[42] – but insofar as it involved the use of war-paint, leather, vegetative material or wooden masks, the masks probably have not been preserved (they are visible only in paleolithic cave drawings, of which dozens have been preserved).[43] At the neanderthal Roche-Cotard site in France a flintstone likeness of a face was found which is about 35,000 years old, but it is not clear that it was intended as a mask.[44]

In the Book of Genesis, one can read how Adam and Eve used fig leaves to cover "their nakedness" after eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil.[45] "The masquerade motif appears in the Bible on two different levels: an attempt to fool people and an attempt to fool God."[46] What shaped Judaic ritual was an "absolute prohibition against fashioning a statue or a mask", originating with the Second Commandment.[47]

In the cult of Shiva, found in Anatolia from circa 6,000 BC, the young, naked ithyphallic god appears in a horned mask.[48] In the Greek bacchanalia and the Dionysus cult, which involved the use of masks, the ordinary controls on behaviour were temporarily suspended, and people cavorted in merry revelry outside their ordinary rank or status. René Guénon claims that in the Roman saturnalia festivals, the ordinary roles were often inverted. Sometimes a slave or a criminal was temporarily granted the insignia and status of royalty, only to be killed after the festival ended.[49] The Carnival of Venice, in which all are equal behind their masks, dates back to 1268 AD.[50] The use of carnivalesque masks in the Jewish Purim festivities probably originated in the late 15th century, although some Jewish authors claim it has always been part of Judaic tradition.[51]

The North American Iroquois tribes used masks for healing purposes (see False Face Society). In the Himalayas, masks functioned above all as mediators of supernatural forces.[52] Yup'ik masks could be small three-inch finger masks, but also ten-kilo masks hung from the ceiling or carried by several people.[53] Masks have been created with plastic surgery for mutilated soldiers.[54]

Masks in various forms (sacred, practical, or playful) have played a crucial historical role in the development of understandings about "what it means to be human", because they permit the imaginative experience of "what it is like" to be transformed into a different identity (or to affirm an existing social or spiritual identity).[55] Not all cultures have known the use of masks, but most of them have.[56]
Masks and the spirit world

A spirit, if it exists in nature or in people, is itself unobservable, it "works through" something which is observable (a medium); it is the awareness of a meaning which can be only evoked, represented or expressed symbolically – with images, sounds, tastes, smells, shapes and movements which make people feel that the spirit is there.[57] Masks have often been used for exactly this purpose (see e.g. traditional African masks).[58] Thus, people believed that the bearer of the mask made contact with the spiritual being(s) to which the mask referred.[59] It meant that a special power and status was attributed to the mask and its bearer; not just anyone could handle it, it was sacred. The spirit, the belief, the mask and the power[60] were directly connected with each other.[61]
Risk and magic

The face often conveys a person’s intention or character most directly, but the masked persons can gain a certain power or advantage, because they can see through the mask, while remaining unseen themselves in some way. The use of masks therefore facilitates control by the actors over what people are able to see about them. Inversely, the attraction for the spectators may be that they do not see what they do not want to see, and see something else (that they do want to see).

The mask as symbolic device expresses a combination of "knowledge and lack of knowledge";[62] the real intentions or motivations that lurk behind the mask are uncertain to the spectator, precisely because of the disguise, even if it is believed or known that they must be there. The response to the mask by others may also be uncertain. The actor can then appear to do magic. According to Michael Taussig, "The real skill of the practitioner [of magic] lies not in skilled concealment but in the skilled revelation of skilled concealment... power flows not from masking but from unmasking, which masks more than masking."[63] The "trick" behind the apparent magic is that the spectator is persuaded, by the hints that a trick is being played, that he knows what is really going on – and therefore suspends disbelief in the performance.[64] The mask is lifted just enough to persuade the spectators that, by gaining access to part of the real story, they have the whole story – while, in actual fact, the spectators themselves are making up what the whole story is. In this way, what is only an interpretation appears as the truth: people really believe it or behave "as if" it is true.
Specificity of a character mask

A character mask is not simply "a masking of the character who bears it". In the technical sense used in theatre, it is a specific type of mask.[65]

    * The specific function of a character mask in theatre (such as in classical Greek theatre) is to transform the bearer into a different personage, or a different role – a new character is then fixed and defined by the mask, in a simplified and invariant way, and animated by supporting body movements. Various different character masks (or different "hats") can in principle be worn by the same actor in succession, in which case the same actor acts out various roles. So this kind of mask is not simply the mask hiding a character, it is a mask which expresses a character.
    * It contrasts with a neutral mask,[66] which simply aims to remove one sense of character from the body of the actor bearing it – by hiding a part or all of the physical presence (the actors are present, yet absent; absent, yet present. They are there and not there at the same time; remote and close; themselves, yet strangers – evoking a sense of puzzle, suspense, intrigue, distance, anonymity, a mystery or a mystique). It might be thrilling and captivating, or it might be disturbing and offensive, depending on the context.[67] The general effect of a neutral mask is to shift attention from facial expression (which is partly or wholly hidden) to whatever is expressed by the movements of the body.
    * It contrasts with a counter-mask also used in actor training: here, the actors are invited to imagine themselves in the opposite role to the ones they are supposed to play, to help define the meaning of their intended role with a clearer contrast (in Europe, masks were first used pedagogically by actors in theatre trainings in the 1920s; the first use was probably by Jacques Copeau, at the Parisian Théâtre du Vieux-Colombier in 1920–1924).[68]

The history of theatre shows that masks can have a variety of functions,[69] but the five relevant points are that:

    * Because a character mask not only hides some or all of the true expression of the acting person, but in addition aims to express a completely different character, intention or feeling, in an invariant way,[70] the character mask always has a double significance: negating one characteristic and creating another, i.e. hiding and positively expressing characteristics at the same time. Any mask represents a two-sided barrier – it can both hide something from the outside world, and hide the outside world from something.[71] But a character mask is additionally also a two-sided revelator: it can both symbolically transform the bearer into a different identity (substitution), and express a part of the bearer's inner identity, which ordinarily remains invisible (outward projection of the inner state).
    * There is no real point in bearing the mask if there is no one else around, other than for protection or medical purposes etc.[72] The mask assumes a social relationship of some kind, and it mediates that social relationship. It assumes that somebody is watching. The mask lacks a reverse side, and exists only on one surface; neither the mask-bearer nor the spectator can see the other side of the mask. When the mask is taken off and turned over, to reveal its reverse side, there is nothing there to see, other than indentations and the holes for the eyes and mouth.
    * The important restriction of a character mask is, that the actor is identified by it as a character, and therefore has to act, and be able to act, according to that character. The character mask therefore provides less flexibility than the neutral mask, because if the actor behaves contrary to his character mask, or if he falls out of his role, the act is simply not convincing.
    * The disguise of the mask may nevertheless also offer a certain freedom or behavioural flexibility to the bearers which they would not have without it, if they can change their masks at will. Writers on theatre sometimes refer to the "liberating" potential of masks, insofar as the masks provide the freedom to be someone else for a while.
    * Masks, which cover one meaning with a new meaning, mediate the co-existence of two opposites – identity and non-identity, being and non-being, concealing and revealing – or fix a transitional state between one form of being and another. Masks can make what is invisible visible, and can make the visible invisible, and they can do this at the same time. The concept of the "mask" is therefore an eminently dialectical category.[73]

Masks as the personifications of functions

In Marx's social theory, the character mask personifies the economic, social, cultural, political or official function which a person or group (or a thing) performs in a particular role, usually in a way which obscures the real relationships involved. When commercial relationships invade every sphere of life in bourgeois society, he argues, people are necessarily forced to act in ways other than they really are, in varying degrees, and therefore are obliged to mask themselves. They may not physically bear any masks or veils, but nevertheless they constantly "act out" roles which the business of making money (or legal and professional requirements) obliges them to do, possibly using various media and props. If they were unwilling to do so, with the appropriate attitude, transactions or functional obligations would fail, and they would not succeed in the marketplace, in public life, or in political service.

Specifically, they must adapt their own behavioural expressions to the behaviour and relationships of things traded in markets, and to abstract legal rules. Keeping personal motivations out of the business or official situation indeed becomes regarded as "normal", "cultured", "businesslike" and "civilized". Indeed, people are admired when they can "naturally" fulfill a role, as if they are "made for the role". In that case, it appears that they have made life-choices which placed them in a role in which they can fully express who they are. Incongruence between authentic behaviour and an "act" may then become difficult to detect, and it may be sensed only as a kind of guile.
Masks as mediators of social contradictions

Abstractly, the masking processes specific to capitalist society mediate and reconcile social contradictions, which arise from three main sources:

    * relations of production (ownership relations governing the factors of production, defined by property rights, and work roles), which create and maintain a class-divided society, in which citizens are formally equal under the law but unequal in reality; class interests are represented as the general interest and vice versa.[74] The state formally serves "the general interest" of society, but in reality it mainly serves the general interest of the ruling class, and more specifically what the elite, the polity or the political class considers to be the general interest of society.
    * relations of exchange in the marketplace,[75] where buyers and sellers bargain with each other, and with other buyers and sellers, to get the "best deal" for themselves, although they have to cooperate to get it (they must give something to receive something). Supposedly this is a "level playing field" but in reality it is not, simply because some command vastly greater resources than others. The attempt is made to "personalize" otherwise impersonal or anonymous market relationships expressed by transactions.
    * the combination of relations of production and exchange, in the general process of competition, in which competitors have an interest in hiding certain information, while presenting themselves outwardly in the most advantageous way. Specifically, people are placed in the position where they both have to compete and to cooperate with each other at the same time, at a very advanced (or at least civilized) level, and to reconcile this predicament involves them in masking.[76] This requirement exists in all kinds of types of society, but in bourgeois society it takes specific forms, reflecting the element of financial gain which is involved in the way people are relating or are related.

"Naked self-interest"

In The Communist Manifesto, Marx & Engels had stated that:

    "The bourgeoisie, wherever it has got the upper hand, has put an end to all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations. It has pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to his "natural superiors", and has left remaining no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous "cash payment".[77]

This "naked self-interest" seems to contradict the idea of "masking" in bourgeois society. Supposedly market trade creates transparency and an "open society" of free citizens. In reality, Marx & Engels claim, it does not.[78] The "nakedness" may not reveal very much other than the requirements of trade; it is just that the cultural patterns of what is hidden and what is revealed differ from feudal society and ancient society. According to Marx, the labour market appears as the "very Eden of the innate rights of man",[79] insofar workers can choose to sell their labour-power freely, but in reality, workers are forced to sell their labour-power to survive, and they may have to sell their labour-power on terms unfavourable to them. As soon as they are inside the factory or office, they have to follow orders and submit to the authority of the employer. It turns out that a lot of business and government information is "private" or "confidential", and therefore not accessible to the ordinary citizen.

Even in "naked commerce", the possible methods of "masking" what one is, what one represents or what one does, are extremely diverse. Human languages and numerical systems, for example, offer very subtle distinctions of meaning that can "cover up" something, or present it as different from what it really is. Anthropologists, sociologists and linguists have sometimes studied "linguistic masking".[80]

The "masking" of quantitative relationships takes three main forms:

    * masking plain computational error;
    * masking through a categorization of counting units which hides the real situation, or presents it in a certain light;
    * masking through the ("meta-theoretical") interpretation of the overall significance of a quantitative result.

Data may be accepted as a valid result, but dismissed as irrelevant or unimportant in a given context, and therefore not worth paying attention to; or conversely, the importance of specific data may be highlighted as being more important than other related facts. It was probably the last variant which prompted the famous exclamation "Lies, damned lies, and statistics" (attributed to Benjamin Disraeli). These maskings may occur at the same time, and they may be related.
Sources of the concept
Marx's studies of Greek philosophy

The theatrical mask, expressing an acting role, was supposedly first invented in the West by the Greek actor Thespis of Attica (6th century BC)[81] and the Greek Aristotelian philosopher Theophrastus (circa 371–287 BC) is credited with being the first in the West to define human character in terms of a typology of personal strengths and weaknesses.[82] Indeed, Marx’s idea of character masks appears to have originated in his doctoral studies of Greek philosophy in 1837–39. At that time, the theatre was one of the few places in Germany where opinions about public affairs could be fairly freely aired, if only in fictionalized form.[83]

Independently from Marx, the romantic novelist Jean Paul also used the concept, in portraying the human problems of individuation.[84] In Jean Paul's aesthetics, the Charaktermaske is the observable face or appearance-form of a hidden self (somewhat mystically, Paul believed that human beings were able to recognize the character of others, because they carried "all the forms of humanity, all its characters" within themselves; if that was not so, he declared, it would be impossible to understand others, or tell ourselves apart from others).[85] It is Jean Paul's definition which is cited in the Deutsches Wörterbuch compiled by Jacob Grimm and Wilhelm Grimm from 1838 onward.[86]

Other early literary uses of the German term charaktermaske are found in Joseph von Eichendorff's 1815 novel Ahnung und Gegenwart,[87] a veiled attack against Napoleon, and some years later, in writings by Heinrich Heine. Heine was among the first to use the theatrical term "Charaktermaske" to describe a social setting.[88] Perhaps the concept was also inspired by Hegel's discussion of masks in his The Phenomenology of Spirit.[89] In his Aesthetics, Hegel contrasts the fixed, abstract and universal character masks of the Commedia dell'arte with the romantic depiction of "character" as a living, subjective individuality embodied in the whole person.[90]

In 1841, the German theatre critic Heinrich Theodor Rötscher explicitly defined a "character mask" as a theatrical role, acted out in such a way that it expresses all aspects of the assumed personality, his/her social station and background; successfully done, the audience would be able to recognize this personality on first impression.[91]
Theatre and drama

The shift in Marx’s use of the concept, from dramaturgy and philosophy to political and economic actors, was probably influenced by his well-known appreciation of drama, including the plays of Aeschylus, Goethe and Shakespeare (the latter two mentioned in Das Kapital), the novels of Miguel de Cervantes and Honoré de Balzac, Dante's and Heinrich Heine's poetry and, possibly, the Italian Commedia dell'arte (troupes of actors, each with a specific role, who travelled through Europe since the mid-16th century and improvised scenarios or skits on stage using masks).[92] Certainly, European writers and thinkers in the 17th and 18th centuries (the era of the Enlightenment) were very preoccupied with human character and characterology, many different typologies being proposed; human character was increasingly being defined in a secular way, independent of virtues and vices defined by religion (exemplified respectively by saints and sinners).[93]

    * Aeschylus, a pioneer of classical Greek tragedy, used character masks in many if not most of his plays, to express and define his characters.
    * In Goethe's Faust, Mephistopheles appears to Dr Faust disguised behind various different masks.
    * In his play As You Like It, William Shakespeare famously wrote that "All the world's a stage". He makes use of masks in quite a few of his plays.[94]
    * Throughout his famous novel Don Quixote, Cervantes draws attention to the deceptive qualities of observable reality and its interpretation: the apparent reality often masks a hidden truth.
    * The title of Balzac's La Comédie humaine "recalls the theatrical origins of the comic genre and therefore the element of the mask". Balzac's fictional characters often hide their motives and interests from each other, in a social masquerade, while the narrator informs readers what lies behind the masks.[95]

The critique of religion

In the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church had banned much theatre, in an effort to root out paganism; theatre (other than liturgical or morality plays) was often regarded as sinful, and actors as deceivers – acting was often viewed as a form of lying, since the actors portrayed characters which they were not themselves – assuming a false identity. More generally, theatre was regarded as potentially dangerous because it might give people "the wrong ideas". The use of masks was often associated with evil, prostitution, criminality and witchcraft.[96]

In the Renaissance, the court masque began to flourish. The growth of commerce and commercial calculation created a new level of human behavioural complexity and motivations, which could not easily be captured in terms of theological categories (or only in a supremely abstract way, rather remote from real life).[97] The religious world view was increasingly being questioned. When, in 1841, Ludwig Feuerbach published his radical work The Essence of Christianity (which proposed that God is a human projection), Arnold Ruge hailed this as a "world-moving step" which "with unrouged truth demasks Christian and philosophical hypocrisy". Ruge considered that Feuerbach, Bruno Bauer and Marx had put an end to the "religious mask".[98]
Polemics

The first known reference by Marx to character masks in a publication appears in an 1846 circular which Marx drafted as an exile in Brussels.[99] It occurs again in his polemic against Karl Heinzen in 1847, called Moralizing criticism and critical morality[100] and in part 5 of a satirical piece written in 1852 called Heroes of the Exile.[101]
The 18th Brumaire

In chapter 4 of The 18th Brumaire of Louis Napoleon (1852), a story about the sovereign’s dissolution of the French legislative assembly in 1851 in order to reign as imperial dictator, Marx describes how Napoleon abandoned one character mask for another, after dismissing the Barrot-Falloux Ministry in 1849.[102] In this story, character masks figure very prominently. Contrary to Hegel's belief that states, nations, and individuals are all the time the unconscious tools of the world spirit at work within them,[103] Marx insists that:

    "Men make their own history, but they do not make it as they please; they do not make it under self-selected circumstances, but under circumstances existing already, given and transmitted from the past. The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living. And just as they seem to be occupied with revolutionizing themselves and things, creating something that did not exist before, precisely in such epochs of revolutionary crisis they anxiously conjure up the spirits of the past to their service, borrowing from them names, battle slogans, and costumes in order to present this new scene in world history in time-honored disguise and borrowed language. Thus Luther put on the mask of the Apostle Paul, the Revolution of 1789–1814 draped itself alternately in the guise of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire, and the Revolution of 1848 knew nothing better to do than to parody, now 1789, now the revolutionary tradition of 1793–95."[104]

Alfred Meissner

In 1861–63, the Austrian writer Alfred Meissner, the "king of the poets" criticized by Engels in his 1847 essay The True Socialists,[105] published three volumes of novels under the title Charaktermasken.[106] It is unclear whether Marx was aware of this, but according to Jochen Hörisch it gave the term "character mask" a certain popularity among German speakers.[107]
Deletion and revival of the concept
The deletion of the concept

Character masks are mentioned five times in Capital, Volume I, and once in Capital, Volume II. Here, the reference is specifically to economic character masks, not political character masks. However, both the official Moscow translation of Capital, Volume I into English, as well as the revised 1976 Penguin translation of Capital, Volume I into English by Ben Fowkes, deleted all reference to character masks, substituting a non-literal translation.[108] English translators of other writings by Marx & Engels, or of classical Marxist texts, quite often deleted Charaktermaske as well, and often substituted other words such as "mask", "role", "appearance", "puppet", "guise" and "persona".

Marx’s concept of character masks has therefore been little known in the English-speaking world, except through the translated writings of the Frankfurt School and other (mainly German or Austrian) Marxists using the term. Tom Bottomore’s sociological dictionary of Marxist thought has no entry for the important concept of character masks.[109] The Penguin Dictionary of Critical Theory likewise does not refer to it.[110] David Harvey, the world-famous New Left popularizer of Marx's writings, does not mention the concept at all in works such as his The Limits to Capital. Likewise Fredric Jameson, the famous commentator on postmodernity, offers no analysis of the concept. There is no entry for the concept in James Russell’s Marx-Engels Dictionary[111], in Terrell Carver’s A Marx Dictionary[112] or in the Historical Dictionary of Marxism.[113] The Great Soviet Encyclopedia does not mention it.[114] It does not appear in Marx and other Four-Letter Words.[115]

Jochen Hörisch claims that "despite its systematic importance, the concept of character masks was conspicuously taboo in the dogmatic interpretation of Marx".[116]
The revival of the concept

However, Dieter Claessens mentions the concept in his 1992 Lexikon,[117] there is another mention in Lexikon zur Soziologie[118] and the more recent German-language Historical-Critical Dictionary of Marxism has a substantive entry for character masks by Wolfgang Fritz Haug.[119] Haug suggests that the conjunction of "character" and "mask" is "specifically German", since in the French, English, Spanish, and Italian editions of Capital, Volume I, the term "mask", "bearer" or "role" is used, but not "character mask".[120] But since "character mask" is a technical term in theatre and costume hire – referring both to physical masks expressing specific characters (for example, Halloween masks), and to theatrical roles – it is not "specifically German", and most existing translations are simply inaccurate. However, Haug is correct insofar as "character mask" as a sociological or psychological term is rarely used by non-German speakers.[121]
Marx;'s argument in Das Kapital

Marx’s argument about character masks in capitalism can be summarized[122] in six steps.
Roles

The first step in his argument is that when people engage in trade, run a business or work in a job, they adopt and personify (personally represent) a certain function, role or behaviour pattern which is required of them to serve their obligations; their consent to the applicable rules is assumed, as a necessity to succeed in the activities. They have to act this way, because of the co-operative relationships they necessarily have to work with in the division of labour.[123] People have to conform to them, whether they like it or not. If they take on a role, they have to fulfill the packet of tasks which is part of the job.

These social relationships are a real constraint, which they cannot simply "jump out of" or walk away from. People are initially born into a world in which these social relationships already exist, and "socialized" into them in the process of becoming "well-adjusted adults" – to the point where they internalize their meaning, and accept them as a natural reality.[124] Consequently, they can learn to act spontaneously and automatically in a way consistent with these social relations, even if that is not always an unproblematic process.
Interests

The second step in his argument is that in acting according to an economic function, employees serve the impersonal (business, legal or political) interests of an abstract authority, which may have little or nothing to do with their own personal interests.[125] They have to keep the two kinds of interests separated, and "manage them" appropriately in a "mature, professional" way – perhaps with a poker face.[126] In this way, they "personify" or "represent" interests, and who they personally are, may well be completely irrelevant to that – it is relevant only to the extent that their true personality fits with the role ("the right person for the right job", or "the function creates the organ to perform the function").

People are slotted into functions insofar as they have characteristics which are at least compatible with the functions. They always have a choice in how they perform their role and how they act it out, but they have no choice about taking it on. If they succeed in their role, they can advance their position or career, but if they fail to live up to it, they are demoted or fired. Human individuality is then conceptualized in terms of the relationship between buyer and seller.[127]
Masking

The third step in his argument is, that the practices just described necessarily lead to the "masking" of behaviours and personalities, and to a transformation of personality and consciousness.[128] It is not just that people can rarely be "all of themselves" while performing a specialized function in the division of labour, and must also express something new and different. There are also many competing, conflicting and contradictory interests at stake – and these must somehow be dealt with and reconciled by the living person.[129]

Different interests have to be constantly mediated and defended in everyday behaviour, with the aid of character masks; these masks exist to mediate conflict. It means that people are obliged or forced to express certain qualities and repress other qualities in themselves. In doing this, however, their own consciousness and personality is altered.[130]

To be part of an organization, or "rise to the top" of an organization, they have to be able to "act out" everything that it requires in a convincing way, and that can only happen if they either have, or acquire, real characteristics which are at least compatible with it. That requires not just an "acculturation" process, but also sufficient behavioural flexibility, intelligence, acumen and creativity – so that a person does not inappropriately "fall out of the role". They actually have to "be" (personify) what the function requires, their identity and the function must match sufficiently. Discord between identity and function is tolerated only in contexts where it does not matter.
Inversion

The fourth step in his argument concerns an inversion of subject and object. It is not just that the commercial relationships between things being traded begins to dominate and reshape human behaviour, and remake social relations. In addition, human relations become the property of things. Inanimate things (commodities, services, financial claims, legal entities), and the relationships between them, are endowed with human characteristics (or even a "soul"). They become "actors" relating in their own right to which people much adjust their behaviour, and they are also theorized in that way.[131] This is a special case of anthropomorphism because it occurs within human relations, not in relation to an object external to them.

A symbolic language and way of communicating emerges, in which inanimate "things" are personified. A market (or a price, or a stock, or a state etc.) is said to "do this, or do that" – it gains an independent power to act. Marx calls this commodity fetishism (or more generally, "fetishism"), and he regards it as a necessary reification of the symbolizations required to traverse life’s situations in bourgeois society. It is necessary, because the relationships between people are constantly being mediated by the relationships between things, where any individual has little or no control over that. People have to accept that, and work with it, like it or not. It means that people are eventually unable to take their mask off, as Marx himself suggests, even if they would like to, because the masks are controlled by the business relationships between things being traded, and by broader legal, class, or political interests. If they are actually unable to take the mask off, they have effectively submitted fully to the power of abstract, impersonal market forces and legal rules.[132] As many philosophical texts suggest, by being habituated to a role, the role is internalized by individuals, and becomes part of their personality: they become the thing that they acted out.
Alienation

The fifth step in the argument is that on the world's stage, the "dance of masked people, and of the things they have endowed with an independent power to act and relate" – in a reified "theatre of life" where the essence of the matter differs from how it appears – leads to pervasive human alienation (the estrangement of people from themselves, and from others in contacts which have become impersonal and functional).[133] It durably distorts human consciousness at the very least, and at worst it completely deforms human consciousness. It mystifies the real nature, and the real relationships, among people and things – even to the point where they can hardly be conceived anymore as they really are.

The masks influence the very way in which realities are categorized. People’s theorizing about the world also becomes detached from the relevant contexts, and the interpretation of reality then involves multiple "layers" of meanings, in which "part of the story" hides the "whole story". What the whole story is, may itself become an almost impenetrable mystery, about which it may indeed be argued that it cannot be solved.[134] The real truth about a person may be considered unknowable, but as long as the person can function normally, it may not matter; one is judged simply according to the function performed.

In what Marx calls "ideological consciousness", interests and realities are presented other than they really are, in justifying and defining the meaning of what happens. People may believe they can no longer solve problems, simply because they lack the categories to "think" them, and it requires a great deal of critical and self-critical thought, as well as optimism, to get beyond the surface of things to the root of the problems.
Development

The last step is, that Marx argues that effectively capitalist market society develops human beings in an inverted way. The capitalist economy is not primarily organized for the people, but people are organized for the capitalist economy, to serve other people who already have plenty of wealth. In an increasingly complex division of labour offering little job security, there is more and more external pressure forcing people to act in all kinds of different roles, masking themselves in the process. Yet, by that very fact, they also acquire more and more behavioural and semiotic flexibility, and develop more and more relational skills and connections. The necessity to work and relate in order to survive – while producing a growing mass of capital wealth – thus accomplishes the "economic formation of society" at the same time, even if in this society people lack much control over the social relations in which they must participate. It is just that the whole development occurs in an imbalanced, unequal and uncoordinated way, in which the development of some becomes conditional on the lack of development by others.[135]

Commercial interests and political class interests ultimately prevail over the expressed interests of individuals. In the periodic economic crises, masses of people are condemned to the unemployment scrapheap, no matter what skills they may have; they are incompatible with the functioning of the bourgeois system, "collateral rubbish" that is swept aside. Even highly developed people can find that society regards them as worthless – which quite often tends to radicalize their opinions (see extremism and radicalization).
Revolution

A seventh step could in principle be added, namely a big crisis in society which sparks off a revolution and overturns the existing capitalist system. In that case, it could be argued, the false masks are torn off, and people have to stand up for what they really are, and what they really believe in.[136] But that is a possibility which Marx did not comprehensively theorize in Das Kapital. His experience as an exile was only as commentator on the revolutions of 1848 and the Paris Commune. He does not himself provide any clear picture of a society in which character masks would become unnecessary (unnecessary, because everybody would be able to be naturally themselves all the time).
Engels on character masks

The "mask metaphor" also appears already in the early writings of Friedrich Engels, and his influence on Marx is often underestimated.[137]
Achille Loria

In 1894, Engels referred to character masks in his Preface to Capital, Volume III – when rebutting a criticism of Marx's theory by Achille Loria. This was 11 years after Marx died, and after a lot of effort to get Marx's manuscript to a publishable standard. Rather unkindly and cuttingly, Engels wrote:

    "Italy is the land of classicism. Since the great age when it saw the dawn of the modern world, it has produced magnificent characters unequalled in their classic perfection, from Dante down to Garibaldi. But the period of subjugation and foreign rule also left its classical character masks, including the two especially finely carved types of Sganarella and Dulcamara. Our illustrous Loria embodies the classical unity of these two".[138]

Engels's substantive sociological suggestion seems to be that:

    * in a society's progressive, constructive era, its best characters come to the fore, and no character masks are necessary for them.
    * when society degenerates and submits to intolerable conditions, it not only gives rise to all sorts of dubious, talentless characters who cannot lead the way forward, but also society's dignity can only be sustained by masking off the social contradictions.
    * based on comprehensive knowledge of a country and its national psychology, it is possible to specify the types of personalities who exemplify the nature of the era.

The problem with this kind of argument is just that, in defining the meaning of what is happening in society, it is very difficult to provide definite scientific proof that this meaning is the objective truth. It remains an interpretation, which may make sense of things at a certain level, without providing the whole truth. Engels's comment illustrates that the concept of character masks is not infrequently used in a polemical way to describe a false or inauthentic representation.[139]
Political disguises and ideal types

Engels, like Marx, also used the notion of a "mask" in the more general sense of a political "guise" or "disguise", for example in several of his historical analyses about religious movements. Engels argues in Revolution and Counterrevolution in Germany (1851) that:

    "History affords us numerous examples where, in countries which enjoy the blessings of a State Church, and where political discussion is fettered, the profane and dangerous opposition against the worldly power is hid under the mask of the more sanctified and apparently more disinterested struggle against spiritual despotism.[140]

In his article On the history of early Christianity (1894–95), Engels suggests that:

    "...the first risings of the oppressed peasants and particularly of the town plebeians... like all mass movements of the Middle Ages, were bound to wear the mask of religion and appeared as the restoration of early Christianity from spreading degeneration; but behind the religious exaltation there was every time a very tangible worldly interest. (...) In the popular risings of the Christian West... the religious disguise is only a flag and a mask for attacks on an economic order which is becoming antiquated. This is finally overthrown, a new one arises and the world progresses." [141]

Friedrich Nietzsche's idea of character masks[142] and Alasdair MacIntyre's idea of "character" in his famous book After Virtue are similar to the use of the term "character masks" as ideal type, stereotype or archetype by Engels and Mehring in the 1890s – certain people or types personify the culture of an era, by giving a particularly clear expression of what it is really about (see also stock character). It is likely that this shift in meaning owed something to changes in the intellectual climate.[143]
Marxist theories about character masks
Early Marxism

    * In his biography of Marx, Franz Mehring refers to character masks, but more in the sense of Weberian ideal types or stereotypical characters.[144]
    * The Marx-Studien published by Rudolf Hilferding and Max Adler referred to character masks as a theoretical category.[145]
    * The communist dramatist Bertolt Brecht made extensive use of neutral and character masks.[146] In plays such as The Caucasian Chalk Circle and The Good Person of Szechwan, the masks support what Brecht called "the alienation effect" (see distancing effect).[147]

Lukács

György Lukács referred to the "very important category of economic character masks", but he never provided a substantive analysis of its meaning. [148]He only referred candidly to his own "Socratic mask" in a 1909 love letter to a friend.[149] In a 1909 essay, Lukács opined that "the bourgeois way of life" is "only a mask", which "like all masks" negates something, i.e. the bourgeois mask denies vital parts of human life, in the interests of money-making.[150]

Lukács restricted the application of the idea to capitalists only, claiming that Marx had considered capitalists as "mere character masks"[151] – meaning that capitalists, as the personifications ("agents") of capital, did not do anything "without making a business out of it", given that their activity consisted of the correct management and calculation of the objective effects of economic laws.

Marx himself never simply equated capitalists with their character masks; they were human beings entangled in a certain life predicament, like anybody else.[152] Capitalists became the "personification" of their capital, because they had money which was permanently invested somewhere, and which necessarily had to obtain a certain yield; capitalists had to "be and do what it takes". If Marx discussed capitalists purely in terms of their function, that was because individual differences were irrelevant to what the function required them to do – either they adapted themselves to the function, or failing that, could not function as capitalists. At most one could say that capitalists had more to hide, and that some had personal qualities enabling them to succeed in their function, while others lacked the personal prerequisites. According to Lukács, the character masks of the bourgeoisie express a "necessary false consciousness" about the class consciousness of the proletariat.[153]
Post-war Western Marxism

    * In the post-war tradition of Western Marxism, the concept of character masks was theorized about especially by scholars of the Frankfurt School,[154] and other Marxists influenced by this school. Most of the Frankfurt theorists believed in Freud's basic model of human nature. Erich Fromm believed that "To understand the discrepancy between behavior and character, between my mask and the reality it hides, is the main achievement of Freud's psychoanalysis."[155] Going beyond Freud's theory, Fromm developed the social-psychological concept of "social character", i.e. those traits in the character structure of individuals which are common to most members of the group to which they belong, and which grow out of theirlife experiences.[156]
    * It also appears in Marxist-existentialist thought, such as in the writings of Jean-Paul Sartre.[157] Indeed, one of the themes of Sartre's debut Being and Nothingness (inspired by Sartre's reading of Martin Heidegger) is how people can become the prisoners of the roles and functions they take on, to the point of losing their original identity. In his famous book Being and Time, Heidegger distinguished between the "they-self", i.e. the self that is just "being there", in common view, and the authentic self, the "self-aware" self who explicitly grasps his own identity.[158]

    * In a radical synthesis of Marx and Freud, Wilhelm Reich – who had tried to combine psychoanalysis and dialectical materialism[159] – created the concept of "character armor". It refers to the total "harness" of physiological defences which mask off the pain of repressing feelings – feelings which the individual is not permitted to express in civil life, or is unable to express adequately (involving muscular rigidities, inability to feel much, dammed-up sexual energy, etc.).[160] Masking is nowadays acknowledged by behavioural scientists to be also a purely biological or psychophysical process in sentient organisms: neurologically, the subjective experience of some perceived stimuli by the organism is modified or distorted by the intervention of other perceived stimuli. It can have a critically important effect on the ability of the organism to make choices, orient itself, or display sensitivity. Reich's idea was developed further by Arthur Janov, where the primal scream breaks through the masks of the body and its behaviour.

    * In the philosophy of the Marxist semiotician Roland Barthes, the mask features primarily as a "sign" with fixed meanings.[161] In his book Mythologies, Barthes questions the reason why the face of Greta Garbo drove cinema audiences to ecstasy; her face seemed to him like a finely sculpted mask, "almost sexually undefined, without however leaving one in doubt".[162]

    * The concept of character masks was used by Anglo-Saxon Western Marxist or post-Marxist thinkers like Perry Anderson, Werner Bonefeld, Paul Connerton, Michael Eldred, Russell Jacoby, Lawrence Krader, and Michael Perelman. János Kornai also refers to it. In Germany and Austria, the concept has been used in the Marxian tradition by Elmar Altvater, Ingo Elbe, Wolfgang Fritz Haug, Michael Heinrich, Robert Kurz, Ernst Lohoff, Klaus Ottomeyer, and Franz Schandl (as cited in the notes).

Theodor Adorno

Writing about the Marxist theorist Theodor W. Adorno, a leader of the Frankfurt School, Rolf Tiedemann comments:

    Adorno regarded this concept [of character masks] as a central category of social theory: [Adorno said] "The task of a theory of society would be to advance from the immediate evidence [of antagonisms] to the knowledge of its basis in society: why human beings are still wedded to their roles. The Marxian concept of the character mask points to a solution since it not only anticipates that category, but has inferred it socially (Theodor W. Adorno, Gesammelte Schriften, Vol. 8. p. 13)".[163]

Adorno argues that Marx explained convincingly why the appearance-form and the real nature of human relations often does not directly coincide, not on the strength of a metaphysical philosophy such as transcendental realism,[164] but by inferring the social meaning of human relations from the way they observably appear in practical life – using systematic critical and logical thought as a tool of discovery. Every step in the analysis can be logically and empirically tested.[165] The hermeneutic assumption is only, that these relations cannot mean "just any old thing", because they require shared meanings in order to be able to function and communicate at all. These shared presuppositions have an intrinsic rationality, because human behaviour – ultimately driven by the need to survive – is to a large extent purposive (teleological), and not arbitrary or random (though some of it may be). Marx himself never said that the "essence" of a social phenomenon is a mysterious, unobservable entity; to the contrary, its meaning is practically "comprehensible to the popular mind", even although the ideologists fail to theorize it correctly and thereby create a mystery. If the "essential relationships" never became visible or manifest in any way, no science would be possible at all, only speculative metaphysics. It is merely that sense data require correct interpretation – they do not have a meaning independently of their socially mediated interpretation. In that sense, the mask presupposes the existence of something which for the time being remains invisible, but which can be revealed when one discovers what is behind the mask. It may be that the essence suddenly reveals itself on the stage of history, or more simply that the understandings which one already has, are altered so that the essence of the thing is finally grasped.
Frankfurt School analysis

The original aim of critical theory was to analyze the true significance of "the ruling understandings" generated in bourgeois society, in order to show how they misrepresented actual human interaction in the real world, and in so doing functioned to justify or legitimize the domination of people by capitalism. A certain sort of story (a narrative) was provided to explain what was happening in society, but the story concealed as much as it revealed. The Frankfurt theorists generally assumed, that Marx had already supplied the economic analysis; from 1930 onward, they assumed that their own task was mainly to interpret all the other areas of society which Marx had not dealt with, especially in the superstructure of society.[166]

The Frankfurt School was especially interested in how capitalist market culture affects human subjectivities and personal life, and the ways in which it might distort the "authentic self" and estrange human relations. It asked question such as, "What human factors made Nazism possible?".[167] In this way, the German Marxist scholars tried to focus problems of the human psyche, by relating them to the capitalist system which gives rise to them – a phenomenological "science of the human subject" intended to avoid both psychologism and sociologism.[168] Inspired by Marx's concept of character masks, the founder of the school Max Horkheimer began to work out a critical, social-psychological understanding of human character in the so-called Dämmerung period (in 1931/34).[169] Horkheimer stated the Frankfurt School perspective clearly:

    "The equality of free individuals, which renews itself through the exchange, the labor of each as the basis of their possessions and power, in short, the principle of the bourgeoisie upon which rests its ideology, its justice, and its morality... reveals itself as a mere façade that masks the true relations."[170]

The Frankfurt School, and especially Herbert Marcuse, was also concerned with how people might rebel against or liberate themselves from the character-masks of life in bourgeois society, through asserting themselves authentically as social, political and sexual beings. The Frankfurt School theorists intended to show, that if in bourgeois society things appear other than they really are, this masking is not simply attributable to the disguises of competitive business relationships in the marketplace. It is rooted in the very psychological make-up, formation and behaviour of individual people. In their adaptation to bourgeois society, they argued, people internalize specific ways of concealing and revealing what they do, repressing some of their impulses and expressing others. If people are dominated, they are not dominated only by forces external to themselves, but by ideas and habits which they have internalized, and accept as being completely "natural". Marx Horkheimer puts it as follows: "The principle of domination, based originally on brute force, acquired in the course of time a more spiritual character. The inner voice took the place of the master in issuing commands."[171]
The fight against alienation

This type of analysis suggests that human alienation is never complete, because in the end people cannot very well deny their true nature altogether, no matter how cleverly they mask themselves or manipulate their behaviour. If there is too much "masking", human processes become dysfunctional, and the management breaks down; in order to operate, the symbol systems ultimately do require shared truths which are the same for all, or are accepted by all. The "rule of law" also assumes this, in order to be able to function. Nevertheless categories and distinctions can be contrived so that some are included, and others are excluded – creating "insiders" and "outsiders". This can make it much more difficult to understand the true significance of observable social phenomena, i.e. to understand the full story behind what one can see. The ruling behavioural boundaries between the "formal" (or "official") and the informal may be somewhat vague, but they are usually always present.

The "trick" in capitalist society is just to understand the true motivation of others, while masking your own. But while part of reality is masked, the truth is usually bound to "leak out" in one form or another, anyway. The mask can hide the true face, but it cannot hide the movements of the whole body – Michel Foucault in fact claimed provocatively that in contemporary Western culture, "the project of the science of the subject has gravitated, in ever-narrowing circles, around the question of sex." [172] Others nowadays argue the issue is not really about sex as such, but about gaining a meaningful, unmasked intimacy, or more generally, about gaining access to the other, and to what the other has.[173]
Contradictory masks

The "masking" of an alienated life, and the attempts to counteract it, are thought of in these Marxist theories as co-existing but contradictory processes,[174] involving constant conflicts between what people really are, how they present themselves, and what they should be according to some external requirement imposed on them – a conflict which is not simply puberal, but which persists throughout life, and thus involves a perpetual struggle from which people can rarely totally withdraw – because they still depend for their existence on others, and have to face them, masked or unmasked.[175] They have no choice about being affected by the struggle, only about what side they decide to take in it.

Essentially it is a contestation of norms, which could be the norms of social classes, ethnic groups, some influential lobby, managers etc. Behind these norms, there are material interests (who gets the money, power, status and access to resources). The distinctive pattern of these contradictory processes is very much shaped by the overall culture of the epoch, based on the given trading practices, organizational forms, the stock of ideas inherited from the past, and the technologies used to produce things. It follows that different times call for different character masks.
The struggle for identity

To the extent that the commercial and public roles impose heavy personal burdens, and little space exists anymore "to be oneself", people can experience personal stress, mental suffering and personal estrangement (alienation), sometimes to the point where they "lose themselves", and no longer "know who they are" (identity crisis).[176] There are then five main possibilities:

    * People may continue to function routinely ("the silent compulsion of economic relations"[177]), sublimating, suppressing or masking the contradictions, perhaps in a schizoid way, as a zombie, as a psychopath, or by becoming withdrawn. In that case, Erich Fromm argues, human beings can become wholly conformist "automatons" ("the automation of the individual") in which a "pseudo self" replaces the "original self" – "The pseudo self is only an agent who actually represents the role a person is supposed to play, but who does so under the name of the self."[178]
    * People may learn flexibly to project many different "selves" to different people and in different situations, as in Robert Jay Lifton's protean self.[179] In this case, they might wear many different kinds of masks at different times.[180] Fromm argues that "a person can play many roles and subjectively be convinced that he is "he" in each role."[181] The ideal of the modern "superman" or "superwoman" is somebody who can appear to a wide audience in numerous different roles, while still remaining authentically himself or herself – a combination of maximum flexibility and maximum consistency.
    * People may mutate, change abruptly or re-invent themselves, letting go altogether of their old identity, and living according to a completely new identity, whether voluntarily or because they are forced to do so. This metamorphosis can also involve masking, in the transitional phase of letting go of the old and assimilating the new (the old and the new can temporarily co-exist, even although they contradict each other; the old may be masked by the new, or the new masked by the old, or the mask may hide the contradictions between the old and the new).
    * People may be unable to function socially anymore at all, in a normal way, because they cannot reconcile their own way of being anymore with what is required of them – and thus cannot "keep up pretenses". Their self-contradictory situation may distort their consciousness so strongly, that normal (or acceptable) behaviour breaks down (a topic explored by Joseph Gabel, Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari). This is likely to happen, especially if they are already vulnerable in some relevant way. In this case, the masks used in social interaction become a source of confusion to which there is no reasonable response anymore.
    * People can also take charge of their lives in the theatre of life, rejecting a victim role. If they are no longer afraid, despondent or downhearted, and do not allow themselves to be forced anymore into a role they hate, they can feel more free to discover the life they want themselves.[182] Or, they can engage in an identity politics to assert who they really are, rejecting requirements which conflict with what they consider to be their real identity. This "struggle for recognition" is analyzed in modern times for example by Axel Honneth, who, however, attributes identity problems to a reified intersubjectivity, rather than to the very structure of capitalist organization, as argued by Karl Marx and György Lukács, or to a master-servant relationship, as in Hegel.[183] Honneth implies that people cannot easily change the structure, but they can change themselves and the way they relate. And it does not help, if they believe there is a structure which does not really exist.

Ultimately, there exists no individual solution to such identity problems, because to solve them requires the positive recognition, acceptance and affirmation of an identity by others – and this can only happen, if the individual can "join in" and receive social acknowledgement of his identity. Marx himself tackled this problem – rather controversially – in his 1843/44 essay "On the Jewish Question".
Criticism and recent controversies
Masking as a crime

Some Marxists have politically lampooned the spectacle that, while some West European governments (such as the French)[184] aim to prohibit Islamic women from wearing headscarves, niqāb and burqa (hijab), the officials are constantly "masking" what they do themselves, even although it may not involve a piece of cloth.[185]

In February 2012, the Canadian parliament debated a private member's bill (Bill C-309) proposed by the Alberta conservative Blake Richards which would make it a crime to wear a mask during a riot. The Bill was drafted in response to the activities of Occupy Canada.[186] According to one observer, a moral panic about masks emerged.[187] In New York City, a law banning masked gatherings has been in force since 1845.[188] The law was modified in 1966 to ban masked gatherings of two or more people, except if masks are worn for "a masquerade party or like entertainment."[189] It is rarely enforced, except occasionally in political protests.[190]Many American states have "anti-mask" legislation on their statute books[191] (often enacted in response to the Ku Klux Klan). These laws have sometimes been contested[192] on the ground that they violate First Amendment rights.[193]
Dialectical difficulties

Much of the scientific controversy about Marx's concept of character masks centres on his unique dialectical approach to analyzing the forms and structure of social relations in the capitalist system: in Das Kapital, he had dealt with persons (or "economic characters") only insofar as they personified or symbolized – often in a reified way – economic categories, roles, functions and interests (see above). Evidently Marx felt justified in this approach, because he considered that the capitalist market system really and necessarily required the reification of human relations in order to operate.[194] That stumped many readers.

According to Marx, the capitalist system functioned as a "system", precisely because the bourgeois relations of production and trade, including property rights, were imposed on people whether they liked it or not. They had to act and conform in a specific way to survive and prosper, and could not very well jump out of the ways in which they were related. As the mass of capital produced grew larger, and markets expanded, these bourgeois relations spontaneously reproduced themselves on a larger and larger scale, be it with the assistance of state aid, regulation or repression.[195] However, many authors have argued that this approach leaves many facets of capitalist social relations unexplained.[196] In particular, it is not so easy to understand the interactions between individuals and the society of which they are part, in such a way, that each is both self-determining and determined by the other.

Marx’s concept of character masks has been interrogated by scholars primarily in the German-language literature (see references). Werner Sombart stated gruffly in 1896 (two years after Capital, Volume III was published) that:

    "We want a psychological foundation of social events and Marx did not bother about it."[197]

Soviet Union

The historian Sheila Fitzpatrick has recorded how, in the Soviet Union,

    "The theatrical metaphor of masks was ubiquitous in the 1920s and '30s, and the same period saw a flowering of that peculiar form of political theater: the show trial."[198]

Those who supported the revolution and its communist leadership were politically defined as "proletarian" and those who opposed it were defined as "bourgeois". The enemies of the revolution had to be hunted down, unmasked, and forced to confess their counter-revolutionary (i.e. subversive) behaviour, whether real or imagined. It led to considerable political paranoia – anybody could be a "suspect", and people had to watch out about what they said in public. In the Moscow Trials of 1936 and 1937, most of the remaining bolsheviks who had played a leading role in the Russian Revolution were sentenced to death or imprisonment for alleged "counter-revolutionary" crimes.[199]

Abandoning bourgeois and primitive norms, and becoming a cultured, socialist citizen, was "akin to learning a role".[200] In the 1920s, the Russian Association of Proletarian Writers (RAPP) adopted the slogan "tear off each and every mask from reality". This was based on a quotation from Lenin, who wrote in his 1908 essay on Leo Tolstoy as mirror of the Russian revolution that the "realism of Tolstoy was the tearing off of each and every mask"(sryvanie vsekh i vsiacheskikh masok).[201] The communist authorities kept detailed files on the class and political credentials of citizens, leading to what historians call "file-selves".[202]

Much later, in 1973 (16 years before Slavoj Žižek entered the intellectual scene) the German New Left critic Michael Schneider claimed that:

    "The animosity towards psychology that marked the Stalinist era and determines the communist reception of Freud to this day is based primarily on the Marxist concept of the "character mask". The Leftist 'anti-psychologism' of neo-Stalinist and Maoist groups in Germany and elsewhere also seeks to condemn psychoanalysis time and again with the argument that Marx's concept of the "character mask" has superseded psychology once and for all. Such a vulgar anti-psychologism, however, mistakes the polemical nature of the concept. Marx used it primarily to attack bourgeois psychologism which sublimated the principle of homo homini lupus est [i.e. 'man is a wolf to man'] into an eternal verity of human nature."[203]

According to this interpretation, there was a "blind spot" in Marx's explanation of bourgeois society, because he had disregarded psychological factors. Moreover, Marxists had interpreted Marx's theory of the "personification of economic functions" as an alternative to psychology as such. Thus, equipped with a simplistic "reflection theory of consciousness" and an "objectivist concept of class consciousness", the Russian revolutionaries (naively) assumed that once the bourgeois had been liberated from his property, and the institutions of capitalism were destroyed, then there was no more need for masking anything – society would be open, obvious and transparent, and resolving psychological problems would become a purely practical matter (the "re-engineering of the human soul"[204]). Very simply put, the idea was that "the solution of psychological problems is communism". However, Raymond A. Bauer offers a somewhat different interpretation:

    "The old introspectionist psychology which was driven out in the early years of the Russian revolution was concerned almost exclusively with the study of man’s subjective reaction to his experiences. It was rejected because it reflected a contemplative approach to life, setting off thought from action, and because it was tainted with concepts of freedom of will and therefore was anti-deterministic. In short, it was "unscientific". This reaction was in large measure a result of the general upsurge of objective, behavioral psychologies throughout the world, but it was abetted also by the materialist basis of Marxist philosophy. (...) The tendency [in the 1920s] was strong to present man as a hollow shell of his psychological self, as no more than a convenient meeting place in which biological and sociological factors worked out their interrelationship. (...) During the twenties the Bolsheviks had no vested interest in the existing order; it was something they planned to change. Environmental determinism, in that situation, served the function of derogating the old and existing orders and emphasized the hope of what would come out of the new order. Once the new order was achieved and there were no further major changes to look forward to, the requirements of this myth changed. The old order was kept responsible for the undesirable traits of character of the Soviet citizens – "the remnants of capitalism in the minds of man" – and the new order was credited with producing the New Soviet Man, to whom are ascribed all the desirable traits of the same citizens. By shifting the responsibility for molding human nature from the "environment" to "training", the Soviet order [was] able to capitalize on the myth of the New Soviet Man as being a product of the system, while fixing the responsibility for shaping people to this ideal on a relatively small group of "trainers" and on the individual himself."[205]

Thus, in Bauer's interpretation, the communist suspicion of psychological research had nothing directly to do with the idea of "character masks" as such, but more with a general rejection of all approaches which were deemed "subjectivist" and "unscientific" in a positivist sense (see positivism).

Freud was accused by the communist authorities of idealism, social pessimism, biological reductionism, a narrow focus on the individual, obsession with sexuality, decadence and dogmatic arbitrariness.[206] Freudian psychoanalysis was regarded as "bourgeois", because, at the time, the clients of psychoanalysts were often people from the propertied classes, who could afford to pay for (long-term) therapy (this is disputed by Freudians, on the ground that psychoanalysts also worked in ordinary hospitals etc.). Leon Trotsky, who had lived in Vienna as an exile, and who was among the few communists who defended Freud, was accused in 1930 of having "capitulated to bourgeois psychology".[207]

The vast majority of people in the Russian empire were, at the time of the revolution, religious believers, whereas the communists aimed to break the power of the churches and religious belief absolutely and thoroughly. "Science" was counterposed to "religious superstition". There was no place in the new communist order for the allegedly "subjective fiction" of religious spirituality, although to some extent religious worship persisted, and was tolerated within very strict limits (see religion in the Soviet Union). The communists also became increasingly interested in conceptions of human nature which facilitated social control by the communist party, and from this point of view, too, the concept of the unconscious was problematic and a nuisance: by definition, the unconscious is something which cannot easily be controlled consciously.

Until 1930, discussions about psychology had been fairly free in the Soviet Union – a Russian Psychoanalytic Institute was established in 1921/22, with the official approval of the Commissariat of Enlightenment – but after 1936, no free discussion was possible anymore at all.[208] In 1932, Freud remarked ironically that theoretical Marxism in Russia had acquired "an uncanny likeness to what it is fighting against": it had become a state religion, complete with Marxist scriptures, censorship and witch-hunts against heretics.[209] In December 1932, the German Communist Party banned Wilhelm Reich's Sexpol literature (published by Reich's own publishing house) on the ground that it was "contradictory to the correct, revolutionary education of children and adolescents."[210]

This situation began to change only gradually after Joseph Stalin had died in 1953 and Nikita Khrushchev had made his famous secret speech, in which he condemned the "personality cult" around Stalin (see "On the Personality Cult and Its Consequences"). The obligatory official broadsides against Freud and the neo-Freudians in the Soviet Union ceased only from 1972, after which psychoanalysis was to a large extent rehabilitated – by the end of the 1970s, psychoanalytic writings could be "read but not published, discussed but not approved, presented in a paper at a scientific meeting but not practiced in a hospital or psychiatrist's office".[211] In the context of Mikhail Gorbachov's glasnost policies in the late 1980s, works by Freud were republished and became publicly available.[212]
The New Left and the Red Army Faction

The New Left was a radical trend which began in 1956/57, a time when large numbers of intellectuals around the world resigned from the "Old Left" Communist parties in protest against the Soviet invasion of Hungary during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. These New Left intellectuals broke with the official Marxism–Leninism ideology, and they founded new magazines, clubs and groups, which in turn strongly influenced a new generation of students. They began to study Marx afresh, to find out what he had really meant.

In Germany, the term Charaktermaske was popularized in the late 1960s and in the 1970s especially by "red" Rudi Dutschke, one of the leaders of the student radicals.[213] By "character masks", Dutschke meant essentially that the official political personalities and business leaders were merely the interchangeable "human faces", the representatives or puppets masking an oppressive system; one could not expect anything else from them, than what the system required them to do. Focusing on individual personalities was a distraction from fighting the system they represented.

According to the German educationist Ute Grabowski,

    "The ’68 student movement transformed the concept of character masks into a concept of struggle [Kampbegriff] – even although, originally, it was nothing more than a straightforward description of the inevitability of being driven into social roles together with other particular people, without being able to hold each of them individually responsible for that."[214]

The positive utopian longing emerging in the 1960s was that of reaching a life situation in which people would be able to meet each other naturally, spontaneously and authentically, freed from any constraints of rank or status, archaic rituals, arbitrary conventions and old traditions.[215] In their social criticism, the youth began to rebel against the roles which were formally assigned to them, and together with that, began to question the social theory of roles,[216] which presented those roles as natural, necessary and inevitable.[217] In particular, the women's liberation movement began to challenge gender roles as sexist and patriarchal. There seemed to be a big gap between the façade of roles, and the true nature of social relationships, getting in the way of personal authenticity (being "for real"). Official politics was increasingly regarded as the "masquerade" of those in power. To illustrate the spirit of the times, Anne-Marie Rocheblave-Spenlé who had previously authored a classic French text on role theory, in 1974 published a book titled, significantly, Le Pouvoir Demasque (Power unmasked).[218]

The concept of "character masks" was by no means an unimportant political concept in Germany, since it was being used explicitly by terrorists in their justifications for assassinating people.[219]
Ten points of controversy

Questions subsequently arose in New Left circles about ten issues:

    * whether behaviour is in truth an "act" or whether it is "for real", and how one could know or prove that (the problem of authenticity).[220]
    * whether character exists at all, if "masks mask other masks" in an endless series (the American animated television series Jem and the Holograms created by Christy Marx featured the song "Everybody Wears A Mask" which has the line "underneath each mask, I find another and another").[221]
    * how people make other people believe what their real character is (see also charisma).[222]
    * the extent to which masks "of some sort" are normal, natural, necessary and inevitable in civilized society (or given a certain population density).[223]
    * whether there can be objective tests of character masks as a scientific concept, or whether they are a polemical, partisan characterization.
    * the extent to which the device of "character masks" is only an abstraction or a metaphor,[224] or whether it is a valid empirical description of aspects of real human behaviour in capitalist society.[225]
    * what is specific about the character masks of capitalist society, and how this should be explained.
    * whether the "masks" of a social system are in any way the same as the masks of individuals.[226]
    * to what extent people are telling a story about the world, or whether they are really telling a story about themselves, given that the mask may not be adequate and other people can "see through it" anyway.[227]
    * whether Marx's idea of character masks contains an ethnocentric[228] or gender bias.[229]

German sociologist Uri Rapp theorized that Charaktermaske was not the same as "role"; rather Charaktermaske was a role forced on people, in a way that they could not really escape from it, i.e. all their vital relationships depended on it. People were compelled by the relations of production. Thus, he said, "every class membership is a Charaktermaske and even the ideological penetration of masquerades (the ‘class consciousness of the proletariat’) could not change or cast off character masks, only transcend them in thought." In addition, Charaktermaske was "present in the issue of the human being alienated from his own personality."[230]

Jean L. Cohen complained that:

    "...the concept of the character mask collapses the rationality of the system with the rationality of social action, deriving the latter from the former... only action according to interests (imputed from the systemic logic of contradiction even if this logic is constituted by class relations) is rational action. Accordingly, the very power of "class" to act as a critical concept vis-a-vis the logic of capitalist production relations is lost."[231]

As the post-war economic boom collapsed in the 1970s, and big changes in social roles occurred, these kinds of controversies stimulated a focus by social theorists on the "social construction of personal identity". A very large academic literature was subsequently published on this topic, exploring identity-formation from many different angles.[232]The discourse of identity resonated well with the concerns of adolescents and young adults who are finding their identity, and it has been a popular subject ever since. Another reason for the popularity of the topic, noted by Richard Sennett in his book The corrosion of character, is the sheer number of different jobs people nowadays end up doing during their lifetime.[233] For example, on average, the American worker nowadays stays with the same employer only for about 4 years.[234] It means that workers can expect to change their employer 12 to 16 times in their lifetime, on average, including 4 times while they are raising children. People then experience multiple changes of identity in their lifetime – their identity is no longer fixed once and for all.
Humanism and anti-humanism

Marx’s "big picture" of capitalism often remained supremely abstract,[235] although he claimed ordinary folks could understand his book[236] (he had tried to enliven the first volume with many examples and illustrations). Most people – other than academics, artists and bankers etc. – do not usually think that abstractly, because they see no point in it. In particular, it seemed to many scholars that in Marx’s Capital people become "passive subjects" trapped in a system which is beyond their control, and which forces them into functions and roles. Thus, it is argued that Marx’s grandiose portrayal of the capitalist system in its totality is too "deterministic", because it downplays the ability of individuals as "active human subjects" to make free choices, and determine their own fate (see also economic determinism).[237] The theoretical point is stated by Peter Sloterdijk as follows:

    "As a theory of masks, [Marx's theory] distinguishes a priori between persons as individuals and as bearers of class functions. In doing so, it remains a little unclear which side is respectively the mask of the other – the individual the mask of the function, or the function the mask of individuality. The majority of critics have for good reasons, chosen the antihumanist version, the conception that individuality is the mask of the function."[238]

In the antihumanist version, the individual is viewed as "a creation of the system" or "a product of society" who, by operating a social role, personifies a social function. In this case, a person selected to represent and express a function is no more than a functionary (or a "tool"): the person himself is the character mask adopted by the system or the organization of which he is part. Hidden behind the human face is the (inhuman) system which it operates. For example, "the capitalist" is regarded as "the character mask of capital." Thus, it all seems to be about humanitarianism, but in reality it is just about the money, and what money can buy.

In the humanist version, the process is not one of personification, but rather of impersonation, in which case the function is merely a role acted out by the individual (whether voluntarily, by circumstantial necessity, or forced). Since the role acted out may in this case not have much to do with the individual's true personality, the mask-bearer and the mask he bears are, in this case, two different things – creating the possibility of a conflict between the bearer and the role he plays. Such a conflict is generally not possible in the antihumanist interpretation ("if you work for so-and-so, you are one of them"), since any "dysfunctional" character mask would simply be replaced by another.
Carl Jung's psychoanalysis

A humanist theory was in fact pioneered by the non-Marxist psychologist Carl Gustav Jung. In his psychological theory – which is not necessarily linked to a particular theory of social structure – the persona appears as a consciously created personality or identity fashioned out of part of the collective psyche through socialization, acculturation and experience.[239] Jung applied the classical term persona, explicitly because, originally, it meant the mask which the actor bears, expressing the role he plays (see also persona (psychology)).

The persona, he argues, is a mask for the "collective psyche", a mask that ‘pretends’ individuality, so that both self and others believe in that identity, even although it is really no more than a well-played role through which the collective psyche is expressed. Jung regarded the "persona-mask" as a complicated system which mediates between individual consciousness and the social community: it is "a compromise between the individual and society as to what a man should appear to be".[240] But he also makes it quite explicit that it is, in substance, a character mask in the classical sense known to theatre, with its double function: both intended to make a certain impression to others, and to hide (part of) the true nature of the individual.[241] The therapist then aims to assist the individuation process through which the client (re-)gains his "own self" – by liberating the self, both from the deceptive cover of the persona, and from the power of unconscious impulses.

Jung's theory has become enormously influential in management theory; not just because managers and executives have to create an appropriate "management persona" (a corporate mask) and a persuasive identity,[242] but also because they have to evaluate what sort of people the workers are, in order to manage them (for example, using personality tests and peer reviews).[243]

In modern times, Jung's idea reappears in the philosophy of Deepak Chopra, who in his book The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success '(based on his 1993 book Creating Affluence) distinguishes between "the true self" and the "social mask", where the social mask is the role played by the object-oriented ego which is hungry for approval, control and power.[244] Introducing The Book of Secrets, Chopra claims that "The one reality is spirit, and the surface of life is only a disguise with a thousand masks that keeps us from discovering what is real." More specifically, he argues that "We are one human being wearing countless masks. When all the masks are stripped off, what remains is essence, the soul, the divine spark."[245] The Jesuit theorist Walter Ong had a somewhat different idea, stating that:

    "Those who have loved over many years may reach a point where almost all masks are gone. But never all. The lover’s plight is tied to the fact that every one of us puts on a mask to address himself, too. Such masks to relate ourselves to ourselves we also try to put aside, and with wisdom and grace we to some extent succeed in casting them off. When the last mask comes off, sainthood is achieved, and the vision of God. But this can only be with death."[246]

Louis Althusser's neo-Stalinism

In the antihumanist, structural-functionalist philosophy of the French Marxist Louis Althusser, individuals as active subjects who have needs and make their own choices, and as people who "make their own history", are completely eradicated in the name of "science".[247] In fact, Althusser recommended the psychological theory of Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan in the French Communist Party journal La Nouvelle Critique specifically as a "science of the (human) unconscious".[248] In the glossary of his famous book Reading Capital (co-written with Étienne Balibar), Althusser announces:

    "In Marxist theory, on the contrary, the real protagonists of history are the social relations of production, political struggle and ideology, which are constituted by the place assigned to these protagonists in the complex structure of the social formation (e.g., the labourer and the capitalist in the capitalist mode of production, defined by their different relations to the means of production). The biological men are only the supports or bearers of the guises ("Charaktermasken") assigned to them by the structure of relations in the social formation."[249]

In this quasi-religious reification of what Marx says[250] – which was accepted by most New Left academics and dominated Marxist theory for decades – abstract forces like "relations of production", "political struggle" and "ideology" are the active subject in history, and real people are not. World history is understood as an objective "process without a subject", governed by inevitable laws of motion and changing configurations of structures, against which the actions of individuals are essentially powerless. Class struggle, if it occurs, expresses conflicts or frictions between different kinds of structures. The basis of this perspective is, that people are being viewed "objectively" as "tools" (or "puppets") of Capital, as the personification of capitalist requirements, analogous to army personnel following orders. In Althusser's theory, human beings appear like Artaud's actors, who resemble mechanical, depersonalized dolls involved in various participatory rites. Althusser seems to have believed that, aided by the superior vantage point of Marxist–Leninist doctrine, he could raise himself subjectively far above the human world, in order to view that world from an extraneous, "objective" and super-human viewpoint. According to Anthony Giddens, the effect is that:

    "...human agents appear in Parsons' scheme, as in that of Althusser, as 'cultural dopes', not as actors who are highly knowledgeable (discursively and tacitly) about the institutions they produce and reproduce in and through their actions."[251]

In other words, people are not merely the "bearers" of social relations, they are also the "conscious operators" of social relations – social relations which would not exist at all, unless people consciously interacted and cooperated with each other. The real analytical difficulty in social science is, that people both make their social relations, but also participate in social relations which they did not make or consciously choose themselves. Some roles in society are consciously and voluntarily chosen by individuals, other roles are conferred on people simply by being and participating in society with a given status. Some roles are also a mixture of both: once people have chosen a role, they may have that role, whether they like it or not; or, once habituated to role, people continue to perform the role even although they could in principle choose to abandon it. That is why both the humanist and the antihumanist interpretations of character masks can have some validity in different situations. For example, in peacetime, the humanist interpretation predominates, but in wartime, the antihumanist interpretation predominates. In a war, "the enemy" is typically dehumanized indiscriminately – it could hardly be otherwise, if indeed the aim is to destroy or kill the enemy.
Marxism as a character mask?

Althusser's malformed "totalizing perspective"[252] – which, by destroying the dialectics of experience, cannot reconcile the ways in which people "make history" and are "made by history", and therefore falls from one contradiction into another – does not just destroy belief in the power of human action (because "the system" dominates everything); the super-human approach also invites the objection that it leads to totalitarianism.[253]

Specifically, in the bid of Marxist ideologists to grab state power, extract a surplus from the workers and manage the introduction of the grandiose "new order", armed with an ideological tyranny of categories, real human beings become "expendable" and are trampled underfoot.[254] It is alleged to be a kind of "upward mobility" strategy utilizing sympathy for the oppressed and exploited, and social envy. This (fairly cynical) interpretation leads logically to the idea that Marxism or Marxism–Leninism is itself a character mask, by which leftists who are desirous of power and influence which they do not have, disguise their real motives.[255] This is hotly disputed by many Marxists, who claim Marxism is something that grows out of their lives.
The sociological imagination

C. Wright Mills developed a concept known as the sociological imagination, the idea being that understanding the link between "private troubles" and "public issues" requires creative insight by the researchers, who are personally involved in what they try to study. The analytical question for social scientists then is, how much the concept of "character masks" can really explain, or whether its application is overextended or overworked.

For example, Jon Elster argued that:

    "Capitalist entrepreneurs are agents in the genuinely active sense. They cannot be reduced to mere placeholders in the capitalist system of production. This view goes against a widespread interpretation of Marx. It is often said that he attached little importance to intentional explanation in economics, since the basic units of his theory are "character masks" rather than individuals. The capitalist, in particular, is only the "conscious support" of the capitalist process, and only enacts the laws regulating it. Even capitalist consumption can be seen as "capital's expense of reproduction". This is well in line with the view that the worker is the passive embodiment of his consumption bundle, rather than an active human being capable, among other things, of waging a struggle for a larger bundle. The conclusion often drawn from this argument is that the capitalist does not "choose" his actions, but is "forced" by his need to survive in the competitive market. I believe this way of stating the issue is misleading. "Choosing" only means comparing alternatives and picking the best of them. The choice may well be said to be forced if all alternatives but one are unacceptable, but it is no less of a choice for that. Rather, the relevant distinction is that between forced and unforced choice, for example between being forced to optimize and not being forced to do so. This distinction might for instance serve to distinguish between capitalists at different stages of capitalist development, as suggested by Weber."[256]

Jürgen Ritsert, a Frankfurt sociologist, queried the utility of the concept of character masks:

    "...are there special concepts in Marx's Critique of Political Economy which could mediate an application of the general concept of a specific historical totality to singular acts and particular act-meanings? Usually "Charaktermaske" (character mask) is mentioned as such a concept. (...) I do not think that "Charaktermaske" is one of the sought after decisive mediating terms."[257]

Sociobiology

Faced with the problem of understanding human character masks – which refers to how human beings have to deal with the relationship between the "macro-world" (the big world) and the "micro-world" (the small world)[258] – scholarship has often flip-flopped rather uneasily between structuralism and subjectivism, inventing all kinds of dualisms between structure and agency.[259] The academic popularity of structural-functionalism has declined, "role definitions" have become more and more changeable and vaguer (even in job designations), and more and more, the Althusserian argument has been inverted: human behaviour is explained in terms of sociobiology.[260] Here, "the person" is identified with "the physical body". This is certainly closer to Marx's idea of "the economic formation of society as a process of natural history", but often at the cost of "naturalizing" (eternalizing) social phenomena which belong to a specific historical time – by replacing their real, man-made social causes with alleged biological factors. On this view, humans (except ourselves) are essentially, and mainly, animals. Elias Canetti notes in this regard:

    "A slave is not property in the sense that a lifeless thing is property, but as cattle are. (...) The desire to turn men into animals was the principal motive for slavery. It is as difficult to overestimate its strength as that of the opposite desire: to turn animals into men. (to this latter we owe not only major intellectual structures such as Darwinism and the doctrine of metempsychosis, but also popular amusements like the public exhibition of performing animals.) Once men had succeeded in collecting large numbers of slaves, as they collected animals in their herds, the foundations for the tyranny of the state were laid. Nor is there the slightest doubt that a ruler's desire to own a whole people like slaves or animals grows stronger as their number increase."[261]

Thus the treatment of humans as if they are animals is itself a strategy of domination.[262] The slaves are essentially beings placed outside human society, not social beings proper, i.e. beings considered as not able or not permitted to relate in a human sense, and therefore fitted only for slave work. According to Marcel Mauss, in Roman times the persona gradually became "synonymous with the true nature of the individual" but "the slave was excluded from it. Servus non habet personam ["a slave has no persona"]. He has no personality. He does not own his body; he has no ancestors, no name, no cognomen, no goods of his own."[263] Roman citizens proved their personhood by showing their genealogy, but slaves were considered not to have any – they were just there to do the work. The important thing was that they should do as they were told.
Game theory

In game theory, there are no human beings or animals, only actors, constraints, opportunities and interests which are abstracted, defined and grouped in certain ways according to assumptions;[264] character masks are dealt with mainly in terms of information asymmetry and opportunism. The game theorists' idea of rationality is, that for any human activity, there are costs and benefits, and people will typically act to maximize the benefit that accrues to themselves, and minimize their costs (a type of utilitarianism).[265] This assumption may not be completely true at all times, but as a statistical generalization it is regarded as sufficiently valid to enable successful prediction. Sometimes it is more beneficial and less costly to cooperate, at other times it is more beneficial and less costly to compete, or maintain a neutral, non-involved position.[266]

The basic limitation of this viewpoint, often noted by juridical specialists, is just that cultured human beings have a multiplicity of interests at one and the same time, which interact simultaneously in ways which may not be so "rationally" explicable (unless one knows them personally really well). What people think the costs and benefits are, how they weigh that up, and how they respond to situations, can be complicated, and involve sub-conscious, spiritual, emotional and social influences. There might also be another rationality, within or beyond a given rationality, which is not captured in the game-theoretical model.[267] Thus, while game theory can usefully shed light on what basic interests are involved, its picture of what the real human motivations are (or were) may be either too simple, or too complex. "Too simple", because vital parts of human character are ignored. "Too complex", because reasons are invented which are not really there.[268]
Postmodernism

The more recent postmodern criticism of Marx’s portrayal of character masks concerns mainly the two issues of personal identity and privacy.

It is argued that modern capitalism has moved far beyond the type of capitalism that Marx knew.[269] Capitalist development has changed the nature of people themselves, and how one's life will go is more and more unpredictable.[270] There is no longer any clear and consensual view of how "personal identity" or "human character" should be defined anyway (other than by identity cards)[271] and therefore, it is also no longer clear what it means to "mask" them, or what interests that can serve.[272] Roles are constantly being redefined to manipulate power relationships, and shunt people up or down the hierarchy.

The postmodern idea of identity was very clearly expressed by the sociologist Erving Goffman already in 1959:

    "The self, then, as a performed character, is not an organic thing that has a specific location, whose fundamental fate is to be born, to mature, and to die; it is a dramatic effect arising diffusely from a scene that is presented, and the characteristic issue, the crucial concern, is whether it will be credited or discredited."[273]

The postmodern concept of human identity – however it may be theorized – maximizes the flexibility, variability and plasticity of human behaviour, so that the individual can "be and do many different things, in many different situations", without any necessary requirement of continuity between different "acts" in space and time. The effect however is a lack of coherence; it becomes much more difficult to know or define what the identity of someone truly is. As soon as the self is viewed as a performance, masking becomes an intrinsic aspect of the self, since there still exists an "I" which directs the performance and which therefore simultaneously "reveals and conceals" itself. The corollary is, that it becomes much more difficult to generalize about human beings, since even at the most basic level the categories or units used to make comparisons remain vague. At most, one can objectively measure the incidence and frequency of different types of observable behaviour.

Aggregate human behaviour is then often explained either as a biological effect or as a statistical effect, estimated by probability theory. Some Marxists regard this perspective as a form of dehumanization, which signifies a deepening of human alienation, and leads to a return to religion to define humanity. Modern information technology and the sexual revolution, it is nowadays argued, have radically altered the whole idea of what is "public" and what is "private".[274] Increasingly, information technology becomes a tool for social control; the powerful command information about others, while releasing only just enough information to impose their authority, and prove their own superiority. Some Marxists even refer to the spectre of totalitarian capitalism.[275] Human individuals then appear to be caught up in a stressful battle to defend their own definition of themselves against the definitions imposed or attributed by others, in which they can become trapped.
New kinds of masks

That means that "masking" processes begin to play new roles, very different from what Marx could conceive.[276] It is not just that employers and officials can bear "character masks", but that ordinary workers are motivated to mask themselves and their activities against what they perceive as intrusion by businesspeople, officials and others who seek to acquire personal information about citizens, in order to control, police, exploit or manipulate their lives.[277] In the modern panopticon, it seems as though everyone is being watched;[278] the panopticon breaks down only when it is flooded by a mass of excess information.

Thus, paradoxically, many people nowadays believe that the pursuit of liberty requires masking one’s activities, simply to maintain the personal privacy necessary to stay in control of one's own life; the more possibilities that modern technology offers to share information, the more circumspect people become about giving information out.[279] It creates a new stimulus for the autonomist movement.[280] It can also lead to the panic or paranoia of conspiracy theory, where people no longer understand the real meanings and effects of human action, and believe their lives are being manipulated by unseen, hidden forces.
Kurz and Lohoff

In their famous 1989 article The class struggle fetish, the German neo-Marxists Robert Kurz and Ernst Lohoff (members of the Krisis group, who subsequently went their separate ways) reached the conclusion that the working class is ultimately just "the character mask of variable capital", a logical "real category" of Capital. The identities of all members of capitalist society, they argued, are ultimately formed as bourgeois character masks of self-valorizing value.[281] In that case, people are valued according to the extent that they can make money for themselves, or for others.
Baudrillard

In his post-Marxist work Simulacra and Simulation,[282] Jean Baudrillard describes post-modern social reality as a "world of signs", where the symbolic representations mutate, via a masking process which twists their meaning, into signs which have become completely alienated from the things which they were originally supposed to represent, and which are then only related to other signs.[283] In post-modern culture, he argues, not only does the simulacrum (i.e. the projected image of something, for example a television image, a brand, or an academic concept) mask or substitute for the "real thing", but the distinction between the real thing and its symbolic representation has itself collapsed.[284] For example, while originally democracy means "the rule by the people, of the people and for the people", based on majority vote and the right of the minority to dissent, democracy can be turned into an abstract "thing" or an abstract value which can be separated from "governance" and may mean only that people have the right to express or withhold their opinion – as long as they do it within the law.

In his 1991 work about Operation Desert Storm, provocatively titled The Gulf War Did Not Take Place, Baudrillard argued the Gulf War was not really a war, but rather an atrocity which masqueraded as a war[285] – using overwhelming airpower, the US armed forces for the most part did not directly engage in combat with the Iraqi army, and suffered few casualties. Almost nothing was made known about Iraqi deaths. Thus, the fighting "did not really take place" from the point of view of the West. Moreover, all that spectators got to know about the war was in the form of propaganda imagery. The closely watched media presentations made it impossible to distinguish between the experience of what truly happened in the conflict, and its stylized, selective misrepresentation through "simulacra".[286]
Žižek

Slavoj Žižek also attempts to create a new theory of masks, by mixing together the philosophies of Hegel, Karl Marx and Jacques Lacan with his understanding of fictional literature and political events.[287] In Žižek's theory, just as an oppressive social reality cannot exist and persist without ideological mystification, "The mask is not simply hiding the real state of things; the ideological distortion is written into [the] very essence [of the real state of things]."[288] Thus, the mask is a necessary and integral component of an oppressive reality, and it is not possible simply to tear away the mask to reveal the oppressive reality underneath; "misrecognition of the social reality... is part of this reality itself."[289]

In The sublime object of ideology, Žižek summarizes Peter Sloterdijk's concept of cynical reason:

    "The cynical subject is quite aware of the distance between the ideological mask and the social reality, but he none the less still insists upon the mask. The formula, as proposed by Sloterdijk, would then be: "they know very well what they are doing, but still, they are doing it". Cynical reason is no longer naïve, but is a paradox of an enlightened false consciousness: one knows the falsehood very well, one is well aware of a particular interest hidden behind an ideological universality, but still one does not renounce it."[290]

Often the pretense is kept up, because of a belief (or anxiety) that the alternative – i.e. dropping the pretense – would have a worse effect, or seriously compromise cherished values or beliefs. To maintain and build an esprit 'd corps (team spirit or morale), essential for a well-functioning organization, a way of working is insisted on which affirms shared beliefs, regardless of whether those beliefs correspond to reality or not, and regardless of whether members of the organization are aware of the discrepancies or not. The result, Žižek claims, is a "symbolic order" of "fetishist disavowal" in which people act morally "as if" they are related in certain ways – to the point where "the symbolic mask matters more than the direct reality of the individual who wears this mask."[291] Using a basically Freudian theory, Žižek then aims to explain the psychological processes by which people are reconciled with the symbolic order, or at least make it "liveable" for themselves (see also Freudo-Marxism). In this sense, Žižek stays very much the pupil of Althusser, who had borrowed the Freudian concept of denial (in French, dénégation, in German Verneinung) as an analogy to describe the role of ideology in society: "an unconscious denial masked by a conscious acceptance, or vice versa."[292]

In Less than Nothing (2012), Žižek adds the idea that:

    "...in the gap between appearance (mask) and my true inner stance, the truth can be either in my inner stance or in my mask. This means that the emotions I perform through the mask (the false persona) I adopt can in a strange way be more authentic and truthful than what I really feel in myself."[293]

In this book, he shows awareness of different kinds of masking, and he uses the term "masks" much more eclectically and loosely to refer to social masks, character masks, Jungian persona, appearance-forms etc. without sharply distinguishing between the theories with which these different concepts are associated.

Žižek's supporters praise his "irrepressible urge and inexhaustible ability to articulate theory at length, in depth, and with manifold entertaining examples"[294] but his critics complain of a theoretical chaos in which questions and answers are confused, and in which Žižek constantly recycles old ideas which were scientifically refuted long ago (or which in reality have quite a different meaning than Žižek gives to them).[295] In particular, most modern psychologists no longer accept the Freudian theory of human nature as scientifically valid, because many of its core interpretations about the human psyche are not objectively verifiable, or cannot be experimentally tested (in addition, many psychologists consider that psychoanalysis offers no certainty or claim that it will improve the functioning of the subject, by means of its techniques – at best, it is an aid to insight about the patient). Freudian psychology is nevertheless far from dead, and there is some attempt to revive it as a management tool.[296]

Frank Furedi suggests that the concept of denial, so central to Žižek's understanding of masks, really plays a quite different role in contemporary post-Freudian society:

    "In today’s therapy culture, people who express views that contradict our own are often told that they are 'in denial'. It has become a way of discrediting their viewpoint, or shutting them up."[297]

If people disagree, or will not cooperate, they are not taken seriously in a dialogue, but instead accused of having a psychological problem which stands in need of professional treatment – no small matter if one's job is at risk. Thus, a dissident is neutralized by being turned into a patient who is "unhealthy", and people are managed according to psychotherapeutic concepts designed to invalidate their own meanings.[298] Furedi implies that yesterday's leftist concepts can be recycled as today's tools for psychological manipulation: an idea which originally had a progressive intention can evolve until, in reality, it plays the very opposite role – even although (and precisely because) people continue to sentimentally cherish the old idea. The point is not simply to interpret the processes by which oppressed people are reconciled with, or reproduce their own oppression (Althusser's and Bourdieu's structuralist theory of "ideological reproduction"); the challenge is to create new ideas which can free the oppressed out of their oppression. For this purpose, ideas have to be situated according to how they are actually being used in the real world, and the oppressed have to be regarded as active subjects who can change their own fate (not simply as the "clients" of officials, academics and professionals who monitor their behaviour).

Philip Rieff summarizes the main problem with, as well as the main achievement of psychoanalysis, from the point of view of freeing people from the masks that may oppress them:

    "Freud carried the scientific suspicion of nature into ethics. It was as if, after all the pronouncements of theology and philosophy, after all the indications of experience, we had scarcely begun to understand ourselves... [According to Freud] our inner nature – the ultimate subject studied by all the moral sciences – lies hidden. Against the conventional assumption that each knows himself best in his own heart, Freud supports the Nietzschean assumption that each is farthest from his own self, and must journey through experience in search of it. He surpasses even the Romantics in his deprecation of mere intellect. (...) To "know thyself" is to be known by another [i.e. by the psychoanalyst]."[299]

If it is true that "we do not even know who we are", then it becomes difficult to understand how people could free themselves from deceptive masks, and change the world for the better, unless they all get a massive dose of psychotherapy to "find themselves".
Occupy Wall Street

The so-called "vendetta mask" first became popular after the release of the movie V for Vendetta in 2006. In 2011, it became a symbol of the Occupy Wall Street movement. It was subsequently adopted by supporters of Occupy movements in many other countries. In 2011, it was estimated by a New York costume company that it was selling more than 100,000 vendetta masks a year worldwide.[300] This character mask represents the stylized face of Guy Fawkes, who tried to bomb the British Parliament on 5 November 1605, and also recalls the V for Vendetta comic book series (see Guy Fawkes mask). The British graphic novel artist David Lloyd, who created the original image of the mask, said it had become "a common brand and a convenient placard to use in protest against tyranny" and "an icon of popular culture".[301] The British daily The Guardian commented that "Guy Fawkes has become the king of a carnival of questions. Far from being sinister, his mask is a jokey icon of festive citizenship."[302]
Optimism and pessimism

Scholars noticed that, in the end, Theodor W. Adorno – who had argued there are really no "individuals" in modern society, only "persons" filling, and defined by, specific functions and roles in capitalism – became quite pessimistic about the future prospects of human society. Adorno was very skeptical about the possibility for people to reach an authentic existence in modern society, precisely because they were constantly being driven or manipulated into roles they had to act out, directly or indirectly. Even if people succeeded in resolving their inner conflicts, they could not escape from the persistent social conflicts in the world:

    "The well-balanced person who no longer sensed the inner conflict of psychological forces, the irreconcilable claims of id and ego, would not thereby have achieved an inner resolution of social conflicts. He would be confusing his psychic state — his personal good fortune — with objective reality. His integration would be a false reconciliation with an unreconciled world, and would presumably amount in the last analysis to an ‘identification with the aggressor’, a mere character mask of subordination."[303]

At most people could temporarily "drop out" or "opt out" of the "rat race", but, in the words of Lily Tomlin, "The trouble with the rat-race is that even if you win, you're still a rat".[304] Adorno's point of view was that:

    "The total effect of the culture industry is one of anti-enlightenment, in which, as Horkheimer and I have noted, enlightenment, that is the progressive technical domination of nature, becomes mass deception and is turned into a means for fettering consciousness. It impedes the development of autonomous, independent individuals who judge and decide consciously for themselves."[305]

The more powerful the propagandizing about the "free individual" became, Adorno thought, the less autonomy the individual actually had in reality.[306] The more people were sensitized to the world around them, the more they were desensitized and dulled at the same time. What remained, was only the dream (or hope or wish) for a freedom, a love and a sensitivity which did not truly exist; the "negative dialectic" of capitalism in that sense was basically that it thrived by creating and maintaining permanent human dissatisfaction: the system needed people who were "hungry", in the sense of desiring to own what they did not have, and prepared to work for the boss to get it. Adorno explained his idea of massive reification with a personal anecdote:

    "What I mean by reified consciousness, I can illustrate – without elaborate philosophical contemplation – most simply with an American experience. Among the frequently changing colleagues which the Princeton Project provided me with, was a young lady. After a few days, she had gained confidence in me, and asked most kindly: "Dr Adorno, would you mind a personal question?". I said, "It depends on the question, but just go ahead", and she went on: "Please tell me: are you an extrovert or an introvert?". It was as if she, as a living being, already thought according to the model of multi-choice questions in questionnaires." [307]

In The principle of Hope, Ernst Bloch however remained hopeful.[308] Faced with the same situation, one theorist was pessimistic, the other optimistic.
Unmasking

If one successfully unmasks something, one understands it for what it really is, and can handle it; inversely, if one understands something and can handle it, it is unmasked.[309] Yet, as Marx notes,

    "...in the analysis of economic forms neither microscopes nor chemical reagents are of assistance. The power of abstraction must replace both."[310]

Economic analysis not only studies the total social effect of human actions, which is usually not directly observable to an individual, other than in the form of statistics or television. The "economic actors" are also human beings who create interactions and relationships which have human meanings. Those meanings cannot be observed directly, they are in people’s heads, actively created in their social relationships, and expressed symbolically.
Science

To seek to "unmask" the capitalist system, Marx argued, is a work of critical-scientific theory. It means ordering what we can observe, aided by theory and past experience, so that the real meaning of the system is understood as a whole, and the puzzle is solved.[311] In this sense, David Harvey writes that "Once its mask is torn off and its mysteries have been laid bare, it is easier to see what has to be done and why, and how to set about doing it."[312] The scientific goal is reached, when one can prove with satisfaction, that one’s definition is so good, that it can withstand the test of all relevant scientific criticisms. It is a big task. Marx warned his French readers that:

    "There is no royal road to science, and only those who do not dread the fatiguing climb of its steep paths have a chance of gaining its luminous summits."[313]

Yet, since every meaning can always be challenged by another, and new meanings are formed, reaching the whole truth is really a perpetual task. Its result always has to be defended against competing claims. One can, in the end, only lay claim to the truth as one can know it, from one’s own standpoint. Slavoj Žižek argues "we must avoid the simple metaphors of demasking, of throwing away the veils which are supposed to hide the naked reality".[314] Marx himself said he welcomed serious scientific criticism of his own contribution, he was not afraid of it.[315]

In the end, Marx argues, capitalism cannot be fully unmasked by means of pure scientific thought only.[316] That is because its ever-changing repertoire of masks is part of the very nature of the system itself, and scientific discoveries can also be masked. They are masked, because scientific pursuits are influenced by property rights and financial interests. They can get stolen (or abused), although the theft may be represented as a "trade", where one party just failed to pick up the goods (in an unpublished manuscript, Marx refers specifically to the "theft of alien labour-time").[317] The idea is, "let other people do what they will to solve a difficult problem, and we will just skim off the result for ourselves".

If people depend on its existence, or if it gets in the way of enjoying their lives, there is always another justification for exploitation.[318] Exploitation can occur under the motto of "love" and "peace".[319] In bourgeois theory, the "sanctity of private property" prevails, but in practice, as Marx argued at length,[320] it does not – what is sacrosanct is only one's own property, not someone else's. The right of a person to his own creativity and its results has to be continually defended, and this can involve the use of masking.
Collapse

Capitalism unmasks itself in the course of development, when its internal contradictions become so great, that they cause collapse – impelling the revolutionary transformation of capitalism by human action into a new social order, amidst all the political conflicts and class struggles.[321] In trying to get on top of the relations they have created, human beings are themselves transformed. Scientific inquiry, Marx felt, should be an aid in the cause of human progress, to ensure that the new social order emerging will be better than the old one, a real open society. Human progress is achieved, to the degree that people really abolish the oppressions of people by other people, and oppressions by the blind forces of nature.[322]
