Senior Design Notes 2018-01-24

4 Control Variables in a project and who sets them:
    Scope       Client
        While finding the scope, you are developing stories.
    Cost        Client/Team Negotiations
        Client sets the cost in the end but the team can negotiate to get cost lowered or raised depending on needs of project.
    Time        Team
        Time is determined in the story report by the team.      
    Quality     High Standard with Agile Programming
        The main goal of Agile/Extreme Programming is to have a high standard of code.

Each of these variables is a function of others. i.e. Quality is a function of Time and Cost, Cost and Time are a function of Scope, etc.

READ CH 6-8

Recap:
    Stories are for communicating between team and client.
    Tasks are weekly plan only known to team to plan short period tasks.

Monday 2018-01-29: Stories/TPS for Quad Solver are due.

Always try to minimize scope.
Integration Problem:
    In waterfall method, all code sections are integrated at end of project which can lead to a large number of integration errors. In agile programming, you only have to deal with one or two small integration errors at a time since you are integrating throughout the whole project.

Testing
    UNIT Testing
        Tests are supposed to be small and focus on testing a single function or module.
    System Test
        Tests the entire program instead of individual functions.
    Usability Testing
        Ensures that the intended users of the program have no issues using the program. Are the prompts informative and understandable?
        Give the users some stuff to do and watch the user work through the task and see if they have any issues.
    Accessibility Testing
        Visual/Auditory Impairment Accessibility (508 Compliance)
    Security Testing
        Pen testing and whatnot
    Performance (Load) Testing
        Verify that a flood of requests won't break the service.
    Black Box Testing
        You dont see the code while testing and it should be done by a 3rd party that didn't write the code.
    White Box Testing
        You see the code while testing.
    Acceptance Testing
        Client tests to verify that the project meets all requirements.
    Regression Testing
        Verify that all tests that were previously run still run properly.
    
Most of these tests should be able to be automated. The last 4 cant be automated.

Need to turn in a testing report at end of semester for main project.